If a time-traveling Henry David Thoreau were ever to find himself in present-day Manhattan craving a cheeseburger, the Underground Gourmet would know what to do. We’d send the reducetarian poet to 7th Street Burger, a counter-service hole-in-the-wall that opened in June in the old Caracas Arepa Bar space. The motto of this bare-bones establishment is “Going Back to Simple,” and judging by the length of his menu, owner Kevin Rezvani is wholly committed to the company slogan. The old-fashioned pegboard lists a whopping four food items: a single cheeseburger, a double, an Impossible burger, and fries. That’s it. The lack of choice keeps volume up, waste down, and ordering speedy. The burgers are bigger than sliders, smaller than ShackBurgers, and come one way only: topped with American cheese, pickles, and proprietary sauce on a griddle-toasted Martin’s potato bun. This is, thinks Rezvani, how God intended burgers to be as well as loosely packed, onion-smashed, crisp-edged, and spectacularly greasy. One bite and you see the man’s point. It’s one of the best new burgers in town.
Rezvani’s aspirations weren’t always so simple. Until recently, he co-owned a New Jersey burger chain called Diesel & Duke that he launched as a Rutgers undergrad, but the pandemic inspired him to pare things down. He sold all five branches last year, and like a combination Jack Kerouac-Guy Fieri went on the road in search of America’s ur-burger. He found inspiration among the slider shacks of Detroit, and in El Reno, Oklahoma, the birthplace of the onion or “Depression burger.” To make an onion burger, you smash thinly sliced onions into the patty, flip it, then let it sizzle on the griddle until, zenlike, meat and onion become one. 7th Street’s burgers are a loose interpretation of that style with the onion component manifesting itself in diced, rather than thin-sliced form.
Though Rezvani will tolerate requests to omit toppings, all he asks, unlike the old Burger King jingle, is that you first let him serve it his way with the offer of a refund if it disappoints. So far, he hasn’t had to give many folks their money back. In fact, since opening, he’s seen volume grow steadily to the point that his crew now flips 900 to 1,000 burgers on a typical weekend night. “We’ve been so busy we had to disconnect our phone,” he says. Beyond the perfect simplicity of the burger itself, what accounts for the success? Rezvani credits low prices ($6.50 for a single); late hours (till 3 a.m. some nights); and the prodigious, appetite-inducing amounts of alcohol guzzled by East Villagers, especially on weekends when “a lot of kids will eat here, go drink, then come back for more.” And sozzled or not, when so much is still uncertain these days, having one less decision to make can come as a relief. Single or double? Fries with that? As old Henry David would say: Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity!
7th Street Burger, 91 E. 7th St., nr. First Ave.; no phone

If you really want to see New York, you need to walk its streets. You need to get out the trusty New Balance 990s, pull up your socks, and, as the great footslogger-essayist Edward Hoagland said, “gobble the blocks.” The great thing about this type of figurative gobbling is that it often leads to literal gobbling. And for the Underground Gourmet, a confirmed block gobbler, that is the main point or at least just reward for all that exercise. The best way to embark upon one of these excursions is to avoid making an itinerary. Half the fun is discovering something new or unexpected — culinary or otherwise — or stumbling upon an old favorite spot you’d forgotten or hadn’t thought about in a while.
Recent case in point: On a balmy evening last month, after maundering around lower Manhattan for hours, from our Greenwich Village apartment down to the Battery and back up through the West Village, we found ourselves passing by Jonathan Waxman’s newly reopened Barbuto by the West Side Highway. Arched windows in the brick façade cast a warm glow, and the bearded one* himself in T-shirt, shorts, and hiking boots was visible overseeing operations in the open kitchen. When we reached the West Street corner, we saw, like a mirage in the slapdash covid-era outdoor diningscape, an empty table — not entombed in a plastic-wrapped box or crammed onto a busy sidewalk but perched high on a sequestered concrete landing overlooking the highway, the Hudson, and Hoboken. Though we hadn’t planned on it, we took this as kismet, a sign that it was time to drop in on the new home of an old friend and see how this iteration of the West Village institution was holding up.
It’s never easy relocating an iconic restaurant, as Waxman intended to do after Barbuto’s original Washington Street building was sold. Toss a pandemic into the equation and things get really tricky. Leading up to the last supper at the auto garage turned Italian brasserie in 2019, encomiums were written, farewell dinners held, teary tweets tweeted. And then nine months later, in February 2020, Barbuto 2.0 emerged three blocks away from the original and twice as big. Order had been restored. All was right in the West Village Cal-Ital world. For three weeks, anyway, until the pandemic brought indoor dining and Barbuto’s relaunch to a halt. (Waxman dabbled in takeout for an additional week. “The day after Floyd Cardoz died, we shut it down,” he says.)
In early October of 2021 Barbuto was back again and considering everything, you might think this re-reopening would be anticlimactic. But to Barbuto addicts like us, the meal mingled the excitement of the new with the familiarity of the past. The concrete floor, the subway tile, the simple, seasonal Italianate menu all evoke the urban-industrial unfussiness of the old space. What was lost by the lack of retractable garage doors that gave the indoors a breezy alfresco feel is made up for by water views and much more room between tables. All the JW classics are here and as delicious as ever: the roast chicken with salsa verde, the crispy potatoes, the raw shaved-Brussels-sprout salad. What’s remarkable about Waxman’s pioneering style is how relevant and ubiquitous it is today. Examine restaurant menus around town and you’ll see his influence everywhere: the subtly distinctive pastas, the market-driven salads, the open kitchens and wood-fired grills. That our favorite dish of the night was a vegetable side — juicy bok choy in a punchy bagna cauda sauce — makes sense. Always a card-carrying vegivore, Waxman is showcasing vegetables even more, now that the 71-year-old chef has shed 32 pounds by cutting red meat and poultry out of his diet—and, as it happens, by doing some block-gobbling of his own, regularly walking (“very fast,” he says) down to Barbuto from his apartment on 89th Street and West End Avenue.
Our little impromptu feast, from classic Negroni to signature affogato, proved that Barbuto’s essence has survived the move and the pandemic. But we were lucky. It turns out the night we visited was Waxman’s only foray into outdoor dining this season. “I don’t want to build one of those structures,” he says. “I’ll wait till springtime.” That’s fine. The Waxman faithful are okay with waiting.
Barbuto, 113 Horatio St., at West St.; 212-924-9700

Some chefs spend years perfecting a dish, but Chris Phelps, the 41-year-old owner of Breakfast by Salt’s Cure, has been working on his signature oatmeal griddle cakes his entire life. Apparently Phelps, who opened a West Village outpost of his three-branch Los Angeles enterprise in September, started cooking before he turned 2. Eager to discover how one goes from learning to eat solid food as a baby to cooking it as a toddler, the Underground Gourmet contacted the chef at his restaurant. But because early memories are often unreliable and Phelps’s recollection of his days as an infant sous-chef is fuzzy, he put us in touch with someone with all the facts at her fingertips: his mom, Kathleen Alexander, whom we reached in Baltimore by phone the other day. “Chris was in the kitchen at 18 months helping me make the oatmeal-pancake mix,” she confirmed. “I saw the recipe in a magazine at my doctor’s office when we lived in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, where Chris was born. I was always into nutrition—pickling, canning, making everything from scratch,” she said. “As a single mother, this just seemed like something that would work for me and get some oats in the kids.”
The recipe made such an impact on the family that one day a then-4-year-old Chris—who, by this time, must have considered himself a seasoned veteran—woke up early and surprised his mother with a lavish oatmeal-griddle-cake breakfast in bed that included orange juice and hot tea with milk and sugar. What surprised Alexander even more than the fact that the kitchen was not on fire was the quality of the pancakes. “They were perfect,” she says. After that, wherever Phelps went, so did the pancakes. When he left home for college, Mom sent him off with a year’s supply of the mix. When he began cooking in fancy restaurants, he’d sneak his oatmeal griddle cakes onto the menu as a special alongside, say, duck confit and blackberry compote. And when he opened his own restaurant, Salt’s Cure, in 2011, he naturally served the griddle cakes for brunch. A week after the opening, the Los Angeles Times critic S. Irene Virbila named Salt’s Cure one of the seven best brunch spots in town. That encomium helped inspire two Los Angeles spinoffs Phelps named Breakfast by Salt’s Cure (“Breakfast” for short) and now the new West Village location where the U.G. went recently to give these highly ranked hotcakes a test drive.
The first thing we noticed is that oatmeal griddle cakes don’t look like regular pancakes, which is to say they won’t win any beauty contests. They’re thin not fluffy, full of webby holes, practically burnt in parts. Some breakfast aficionados believe that the first pancake of any given batch is doomed to failure and should be summarily tossed into the trash, and the thing about oatmeal griddle cakes is that every one of them looks like the first one. But looks aren’t everything. Taste is another matter, and these pancakes are delicious — crisp-edged, rich and creamy, not too sweet. Brutti ma buoni (“ugly but good”) is the Italian phrase (and the name of the cookie) that springs to mind when you ruminate on Chris Phelps’s oatmeal griddle cakes.
They come in five flavors, each with its own custom adornment: a crunchy flax crumble on the blueberry, coconut flakes and walnuts on the banana, and so on. One thing you won’t find anywhere near a Breakfast griddle cake, though, is maple syrup, a brand-defining quirk that Phelps gets away with by sweetening the batter (and the butter). The pancakes are even better on a platter alongside eggs (nicely fried or scrambled) and the housemade sausage of your choice (the chickpea, which Phelps describes as “breakfast-sausage-flavored falafel,” is surprisingly tasty). You could visit Breakfast and have an entirely pleasurable pancakeless experience. There are good things to eat here besides the signature dish, including a runny-egg-and-sausage sandwich and a double smash-burger made with grass-fed local beef, both served on Bien Cuit buns. There is allegedly a salad, though we never saw anyone eating it. But oatmeal griddle cakes are the thing, and not ordering a stack is like bringing a vegan to Peter Luger.
With its casual counter service and relatively affordable prices ($3 to $15), Breakfast by Salt’s Cure has the unfussy look of a country kitchen and the soul of a diner. It’s a formula that has real potential in a town with few options between greasy spoon and glitzy brunch joint, and Phelps is already scouting future locations. He has relocated to Brooklyn to plot local expansion and has identified a “pancake-size hole” in his Park Slope neighborhood. Mom must be proud.
27½ Morton St., at Seventh Ave. S.; no phone; breakfastbysaltscure.com

With every new spike in infections, it’s clear the COVID era will be with us a little while longer, but you can already tell that chefs and restaurateurs have formed strong opinions about what their customers seem to want (or not to want) after subsisting on pantry recipes and packets of ramen in their darkened apartments. Modestly priced, comfort-oriented home cooking is most obviously in fashion (unless you’re a member of the increasingly furtive underground thousand-dollar omakase sushi-bro set), and if you happen to have a beloved family cook to name your new venture after, that’s even better. The talented Cantonese American chef Calvin Eng named his excellent new Williamsburg brasserie for his mother (Bonnie’s), and Victoria Blamey, at her excellent new downtown restaurant, gave the honor to her Chilean great-aunt (Mena).
Now comes Patti Ann’s, Greg Baxtrom’s wacky, somewhat stilted homage to his down-home midwestern childhood (Patti Ann is his mom, and he grew up outside Chicago), which opened a couple of months ago on Vanderbilt Avenue in Prospect Heights, not far from the other popular Baxtrom restaurants, Olmsted and Maison Yaki. The room is decorated with all sorts of antic schoolhouse touches (crayon-colored menus, chalkboards and maps on the walls, water-filled milk jugs at every table). The sturdy, wood-topped tables are the kind you might see in a kindergarten classroom, the menu is filled with kids’ favorites (pigs in a blanket, macaroni and cheese), and even the $15 cocktails have been named (Field Trip, Ditch Day, Parent Teacher Conference) to evoke the kind of Ferris Bueller reveries we all remember (though possibly never actually experienced) back in high school.
“I can’t tell whether this is supposed to be satire or not,” someone said as we announced our drink choices to the server, who was dressed, as if for a ye olde midwestern cookout, in a neatly tied waist apron and blue denim shirt. Baxtrom is a topflight classically trained chef, however, and as dinner progressed, it quickly became clear that his idea of “home cooking” is a little different from that of your average mom in the wilds of suburban Chicago. I have never been a big fan of cheddar-cheese balls, but the one we enjoyed here was laced with port wine, among many other elevated things, and served with a stack of crunchy, warm crostini. The house mac ’n’ cheese is bombed, for good measure, with overwhelming gobs of Swiss-style raclette, and the large pastry-encased pig in a blanket contains deposits of gourmet belly bacon instead of the usual processed-pork dog.
“This is Mom’s cooking the way Mom never made it,” our cheery server said as she delivered to our table a crinkly chicken-fried pork chop garnished with a single wedge of lemon and a little round of duck meat loaf sweetened with a slightly treacly “ketchup” made from cherries. Any form of chicken-fried pork has its charms as far as I’m concerned, but after three or four bites of this rich creation, even the most rabid American fried-food aficionados at the table were gasping for breath. “I don’t know if I can finish this,” said the poor soul who ordered the modestly portioned (and generally delicious) meat loaf, though it wasn’t clear whether this was because of the dish’s gourmet interpretation or because his constitution for this kind of amped-up food isn’t what it was pre-pandemic.
The answer to these questions, we found, as one relentlessly flavorful recipe succeeded the next, is probably a little of both. My Caesar salad was drowned in too much dressing and cheese, and instead of Mom’s simple Sunday roast chicken — or any number of roast chickens being served at restaurants around town during these comfort-addled times — the “Royale” roast chicken at Patti Ann’s is a muddled amalgam of chicken cooked in so many different styles (fried, confit, baked) that none manages to register in any significant way. The same is true of a technically interesting Cobb-salad “dip,” which involved all the classic elements of Cobb salad (rows of bacon, boiled eggs, tomatoes, etc.) set not on a bed of lettuce but on a kind of foam that appears to be designed for dipping crudités, though after a dip or two, our band of tasters politely shoved it aside.
With the exception of the grimly realistic reimagining of a dreary midwestern shrimp cocktail, I never tasted a bad thing during my visits to Chef Baxtrom’s curiously twee new restaurant (yes, diners are given “report cards” at the end), but the menu could have used a bit of Mom’s old-fashioned touch along the way. Aside from those first two bites of fried pork chop, my favorite dishes were the short-rib pot roast (call for the mashed potatoes with chive butter to accompany it) and a simple plank of salmon smoked over cedarwood and rolled in a dusting of crushed saltines. The roster of kid-friendly desserts includes chocolate-and-peanut-butter bars and a frosty root-beer float (poured with Chicago’s own Dad’s Root Beer), although if you ask for the mammoth, predictably delicious cherry cobbler, along with four extra spoons, you (and your family of five) won’t need any more dessert for at least a week.
Open: Dinner Wednesday through Sunday.
Prices: Appetizers, $8 to $16; mains, $22 to $30.
Recommended dishes: Port-wine cheese ball, blooming onion (for your Insta feed), short-rib pot roast, chicken-fried pork chop, saltine-encrusted salmon, mashed potatoes, cherry cobbler.
Note: There’s a bakery on-site and a general store in the back where you can purchase a variety of midwestern favorites (Nueske’s bacon, lemon drops, “Chicago mix” popcorn) and even dried pig’s ears ($5) for the family dog to chew on.

Since it opened in January, Coqodaq (the French and Korean words for “chicken,” soldered together) has been taunting aspirant diners with nothing more than midnight Resy slots and unfulfilled promises to Notify them. Coqodaq has the low lights, pulsing music, and door-stationed bouncer of a nightclub, and most days, a line for the walk-in seats along the bar and in its front-room lounge starts to form around 4:15 p.m.
In Seoul, fried chicken is a cheapish, cheerful, local encounter. Coqodaq, in keeping with Kim’s fine-dining expertise, is designed to optimize the experience. You enter the restaurant — past a boarded-up front that will house 24 extra outdoor seats — directly into a hand-washing station, a nice touch for finger food, where you may select your own luxury soap. (The correct choice is Loewe’s tomato-leaf cleanser, which retails for $80.) Coqodaq is a “fried chicken cathedral,” Kim has said, even if David Rockwell’s interior, with its illuminated archways, suggests something closer to a fried-chicken tunnel of love.
An elevated fried-chicken experience needn’t be gouging. While unquestionably more expensive than Bonchon or one of the other chains, Coqodaq’s signature “Bucket List,” two piles of chicken with banchan and an appetite-whetting cup of consommé, counts, at $38 a person, as pretty reasonable among high-end New York restaurants. For that, you get an even split of chef Seung Kyu Kim’s “original” rice-flour-breaded chicken with four squeeze bottles of dipping sauces and a glossy version, pre-sauced with either soy and garlic or gochujang glaze — diner’s choice. To really ball out, there are supplementary tins of caviar, oysters, or the requisite social-media bait, here called the Golden Nugget™, topped with a little snort of Golden Daurenki caviar. Accompanying bubbles come from what the restaurant touts as the country’s biggest Champagne list, under the direction of Victoria James. You can guess who is being targeted by a $48 flute of Veuve Clicquot La Grand Dame 2015 — “Not that yellow label bottle, this is the real fancy stuff!” per the menu—but beyond the Grandes Marques, there are a full 100 bottles priced under $100. When presented with a $120 to $140 budget and a few details, a wine director steered me to an excellent Blanc de Noirs from Famille Moutard — at $90.
But where chicken is the namesake, chicken should be the star. At Coqodaq, a clientele raised on the homegrown KFC (Kentucky) will find its buckets reassuringly familiar (and the coleslaw to be a near-perfect dupe of the Colonel’s). The quality is clearly higher, the seasoning more evenly distributed. And so the tables fill with foursomes of finance dudes, families with brooding teens coaxed to smiles by fried food, ladies who secured their selfies in the dramatic light of the hand-washing station, all drawn by hype and bop, sugar and crunch. “I would describe that chicken as fluffy,” one ride-along said wonderingly. “I don’t know how to make a fluffy chicken.”
But a Korean American colleague I brought thought the soy-garlic glaze was light on garlic and Americanishly sweet; the gochujang, surprisingly timid. She was less bothered than I was by the mildness of the kimchee — a quick-pickled version, rather than the deeply funky, radiantly fermented stuff —but we both found the pickled daikon cut too big. She was also amused by the restaurant’s free use of the Hangul word for chicken, which decorates its frontage and its glassware. “You walk by and you’d think it was a wholesaler,” she told me. “In Korea, you’d never call a restaurant ‘Chicken.’ ”

All over the city, there seems to be a new energy in Middle Eastern cuisine: the Palestinian kitchens of Ayat and al Badawi, the Israeli Shmoné, and the Lebanese Sawa. Huda opened in the fall on a quiet corner by the BQE, just slightly off the beaten track. It has made itself at home in the neighborhood: Every time I went, the room was full and humming. The décor borrows from the start-up bistro playbook, with small wooden tables, velvet-upholstered benches, plastered walls, and dimly glowing lights, but the menu feels appreciably its own from the start. Every meal begins with a dish, unbidden, of fresh chickpeas, spring green in their edamamelike pods. To these, you might add a cocktail of mint and arak (the anise-flavored Levantine spirit similar to Greek ouzo or French pastis) or a tiny tumbler of harissa-and-olive-laced vodka — a meze served as a shot. (You can sip. We sipped.)
Hassan takes the bistro part of the assignment seriously, too, and several of the dishes could do double duty on La Bonne Soupe’s menu were it not for the welcome addition of some spice. What would be labeled “beef tartare” in Manhattan is here turned into kibbe naya, chopped raw beef tenderloin given a little textural interest by the addition of bulgur, as they do in Lebanon. Where the French swear by their simple salade de carottes râpées, Hassan dresses her tangle of grated carrots with golden raisins and a sweet-sour honey-sumac dressing and adds pita and pomegranate molasses.
Strict adherence to tradition is not the point. “We have a lot of Palestinians coming in here giving us side-eye,” confessed our server, because the msakhan, a Palestinian dish usually composed of roasted chicken over taboon flatbread, is here a boned, flattened branzino. The fish turns out to be a bit mild to carry the whole, even when dusted generously with sumac. But no one had that problem with the shish barak, plump, ground-beef-stuffed dumplings — “Lebanese tortellini,” as the menu describes them, though they are equally cousin to pierogi and the full global spectrum of dumplings — napping in a thick, creamy yogurt sauce gleaming around the edges with chile-tinted oil.
As Arabic pop plays, you may wonder why everyone doesn’t throw calorie counting to the wind to serve every bowl of tortellini this way or put little grilled squid over a squidgy pile of tahini-rich hummus enlivened by a rough mince of olives and vinegar. Here and throughout, Hassan walks a fine line, balancing the pillowy and the bracing, the sweet and the sour, comfort and tension, with an acrobatic grace.
Hadidi has said his family’s recipes were the starting point, but Hassan has bistro’d them into something with their own sense of place. “Cheap dates,” a $6 amuse-bouche of medjools warmed in ghee and spicy with cinnamon and paprika, are almost too simple for restaurant food, except that my table fought over them to the last pit. Or a little dish of ice cream, fragrant with mastic and rose water, with a melting spoonful of pistachio butter on top. They’re small gestures, good ones, maybe even hopeful. The bill arrives on a pile of stickers: Free Palestine.

Like any ambitious new big-city establishment during this plague year, the polished Chinese-style cafe Milu, which opened a couple of weeks ago among the mostly deserted storefront spaces on lower Park Avenue, offers many different dining options. You can enjoy your chicken grain bowl outside under a slightly tattered-looking tent, or at one of the white tables inside the clean, well-lit space. You can peruse a variety of enticing “pantry” items (house-made chili oil, designer soy sauces, jars of duck fat) while picking up your takeout order, or you can do what most us have been doing for many months now and order your own delivery feast, which in my case arrived in neatly stacked and bagged in paper boxes exactly 26 minutes after I’d tapped out my family style order on the easy-to-use website.
“Where are all the noodle dishes, Dad?!” one of the grizzled carryout critics at the table cried as we carefully unpacked the tidily arranged boxes of chilled spicy cucumber, “Sichuan spiced” cauliflower, chunks of densely fatty “Yunan” brisket, and several helpings of refreshingly fluffy homestyle rice.
Our carryout critic, who was raised on the usual multitudinous buffet of thickened lo mein and crispy beef choices, had a point of course, although Milu (“rice road” in Mandarin) is clearly not your average Chinese carryout joint. The chef, Connie Chung, has a degree in chemical biology from UC Berkeley, and her co-owning partner, Vincent Chao, went to Harvard. They met during the glory days of Eleven Madison Park, where Chung served time as the sous chef, among other things. Both grew up around traditional Chinese kitchens, and their idea here, clearly, is to leave the chaotic old connect-the-dots carryout model behind, in favor of a simpler brand of homestyle Chinese cooking.
The cool, vividly green chili-doused cucumbers we sampled first were as good as any versions of this classic dish that Dad has tasted in the grand northern-style restaurants of Shanghai or Beijing, although my Zoom-addled daughters took a couple of hesitant bites and pushed them aside. Ditto the slightly gummy designer dumplings (“You didn’t order enough dumplings, Dad!”), which were shaped like little top hats, and stuffed with a savory mash of ground pork and fennel. Nobody had anything unkind to say about the Mandarin duck, however, which the kitchen simmers in its own fat in the classic confit style, and serves either family-style with other dishes for $45, or with the aforementioned cucumbers, over a bowl of rice infused with more duck fat.
The square little chunks of chili-caked brisket packed a similar punch, although after a bite or two, the carryout critics were clamoring again for their gooey noodle dishes and plastic tubs of milky wonton soup. They pointed out that for $22, the serving of brisket was on the small side (this was true), and that the menu could have a little more variety to it (also true), and when Dad began to explain that Milu was designed to be what in the pre-COVID world used to be called a “fast casual” restaurant, a place for quick office meals and healthy lunchtime dining, they left the table one by one.
One person who didn’t leave the table, however, was Ms. Platt, a discerning carryout snob of the old school who tends to regard a tub of General Tso’s with the kind of haughty disdain that a top Italian chef reserves for frozen pizza, say, or a recently opened can of Chef Boyardee. “This food is delicious,” she said as poured herself a glass of the signature Finback Milu Pilsner. She then asked for the box of watercress cilantro salad, which the rest of us had ignored, along with some cucumbers and spiced cauliflower to put on her already alarmingly full plate of duck. “Everything goes well together,” she said between happy bites. “Where is this place? Is it near my office? I’m definitely going back for lunch.”

Over the past few years, we’ve all become familiar with the doleful death notices for the hundreds of dive bars and diners and “beloved” dining institutions that have closed their doors around town. The closings continue, many of them quiet and not memorialized, though as the city begins its long, slow recovery from the great COVID nightmare, we’ve noticed that here and there, as winter turns to spring, some of these former institutions have begun to come back to life. A new team of cooks will be trying their luck in the grandiose former Del Posto dining room this spring, and the slimmed-down version of the Gotham Bar and Grill, now called Gotham, has been doing a brisk neighborhood business on 12th Street, down in the Village, with new owners, the same maître d’ in the front of the house, and the former pastry chef running the kitchen.
Few of these revivals have been more successful or unexpected than that of the 1930s-era El Quijote, which served jugs of sangria and a roster of stolid Spanish classics for close to 90 years at the bottom of the Hotel Chelsea on 23rd Street before shuttering in 2018. Prior to its demise, generations of assorted crackpots and doomed geniuses lived above (Dylan Thomas; Hendrix and Joplin; Sid and Nancy, of course) and got famously blotto in the famous room with its glass etchings of giant lobsters and murals of Don Quijote on the walls, though if you’d wandered by during the depths of the lockdown, as I did, and peeped through the dark window at the stacks of chairs and the dusty, deserted bar, it would have felt as if you were looking back in time into the stateroom of a wrecked Spanish galleon.
But thankfully a combination of intrepid hospitality impresarios have rescued this venerable room from the sunken deep. Many of the original touches remain intact and are in some cases freshly exposed — the clattering tile floors, the creaky lampshade chandeliers hanging from the distressed, smoke-stained ceiling — but the dining area is smaller and more intimate and the bar emits a polished 21st-century glow. The wait staff wear replicas of the original red waiters’ jackets, with rows of pens stuck in their pockets, and they portage wheels of paella around the room along with other Spanish favorites (pan con tomate, Ibérico ham, truffled sausages, head-on shrimp), all of which seem to taste much better than they ever did thanks to chef de cuisine Byron Hogan, who spent years cooking in Madrid before washing up back here in New York.
I don’t recall properly crunchy salt-cod croquetas with generous dabs of fresh aïoli when I used to drop in to the crowded bar back in the Sid-and-Nancy days, or a decorous cheese board containing thin triangles of manchego and La Peral blue from the north with a pile of marcona almonds. Our platter of dark, chestnut-fed Ibérico ham had that trademark dense, almost candy-cane stiffness to it (you can also order decent Serrano ham for a third the price), and we enjoyed it with toasty wedges of pan con tomate (which were possibly a little too thick on the tomate), in addition to the aforementioned gambas al ajillo (sizzled à la plancha and devoured head first, of course) and Spanish anchovies set in minimalist rows on a round white plate and sunk in a pool of olive oil.
None of the recipes on El Quijote’s compact one-page menu are revelatory, but most everything we tasted was well executed, and some dishes were even better than that. I’m thinking of the blackened chargrilled chicken, which is rolled in cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, among numerous other “North African” spices, and cooked as at a barbecue in the Castilian countryside on long metal skewers. A special cut of Ibérico pork seemed to get sweeter and more tender as we ate it, and the salver of paella was dappled in an impressive, Instagram-ready way with an abundance of shellfish and rabbit. If you order the longtime El Quijote signature lobster à la plancha, you’ll find it’s much less dry and stringy than it used to be (it’s splashed with sherry and garlic butter) and that it goes perfectly with a bowl of patatas bravas on the side.
El Quijote made its reputation as one of the great downtown drinking venues, and half of the new space is given over to the original bar, which has been fitted underneath with soft lighting and modish purse hooks and set with new stools covered in red velvet. There are the usual sangrias on offer, poured into glass jugs, though for a taste of modern Spain, I suggest the goblet-size gin-and-tonic, which, on the evening I tried it, was garnished with bay leaves, slices of fresh lime, and shavings of green apple. There are numerous luscious Spanish wines to choose from (try the grenache-based Samuel ’19 from Catalonia) and a proper section of sherries for sipping after dinner, or even with a creamy slice of gâteau Basque for dessert garnished with a sweet, fragrant marmalade that, if you close your eyes, smells a bit like summertime in Seville.
Open: Dinner nightly.
Prices: Appetizers, $9 to $24; mains, $23 to $72 for the paella de temporada for two (or four).
Recommended dishes: Pan con tomate, Ibérico and Serrano hams, anchovies and boquerones, head-on prawns, lobster à la plancha, pintxos morunos (chargrilled chicken), patatas bravas, gâteau Basque, cheese plate.
Note: Table reservations fill up fast, and so does the bar, so if you’re in the mood for a proper Sid-and-Nancy drinking session, best to belly up at 5 p.m. or so.

In a town filled with old and venerable dining institutions, Gage & Tollner, which began life as an oyster house near the Brooklyn waterfront in 1879, is one of the oldest and most venerable. The dark-toned, beer-hall-style dining room on Fulton Street was also one of the earliest landmarked interiors in the city (only the New York Public Library and Grant’s Tomb came before it). The original owners sold out in 1911, which is a good run for any restaurateur, but according to the restaurant’s informative, museum-quality website, Eugene Tollner kept up his daily rounds for years before dying on the way to work at the age of 85. Edna Lewis famously ran the kitchen there during the late 1980s, and thanks to a series of diligent owners, the rituals of the place survived — oysters and clam-belly broil, beefsteaks with all the trimmings, ice cream for dessert — the way they do in an old church as the neighborhood changes around it.
For a decade or so during the early aughts, the space fell on hard times (the long railroad room was occupied by an Arby’s at one point), but a couple of years back, a confederation of seasoned local restaurateurs — St. John Frizell of the Red Hook bar Fort Defiance, and Ben Schneider and chef Sohui Kim, who run Insa in Gowanus — decided to bring the room and its rituals back to life. With the help of an eclectic collection of investors (the bewhiskered cocktail scholar David Wondrich is one), they polished up the vintage gaslight chandeliers and giant hat hooks and replaced the ceiling with Venetian plaster. They restored the antique revolving door out front, enlivened the spaces between the cherry-wood-trimmed mirrors with an embroidered Gilded Age wall-covering design of golden fruit, and set up rows of mahogany tables and dark cane furniture, just like in the old days.
Located in an ancient brownstone building on a mostly empty stretch of Fulton Street, the meticulously realized result, which was finally unveiled in April after a long COVID delay, feels like a kind of marvel. At a time when so many of the city’s great restaurants and bars have closed for good, here’s one that has returned from the dead, and although it’s filled with quirky, comforting echoes of the past (you’ll find a ’70s-era pay phone next to the bar), the convivial room bustles with a sense of promise and even innovation. I’m pretty sure there weren’t seven styles of martini available at the original restaurant, or a smooth version of the classic Rob Roy (Frizell and his team mix it with a slug of Glenlivet), and if you call for an order of the chef’s signature clams Kimsino, you’ll find that the baked clams are brightened, not unpleasantly, with bits of chopped kimchee.
Kim does an artful job of mixing these postmodern touches into a traditional chophouse menu that is filled, as someone at my table remarked, with all sorts of things that look good to eat. For big spenders, these include a variety of iced seafood options to start (chilled lobster, caviar, oysters by the dozen), platters of mossy-green oysters Rockefeller served five to a plate for $24, and an excellent crab cake set in a pool of lemon aïoli with the yolk of a single barely poached egg. There are also several well-constructed salads to choose from (get the creamy, anchovy-rich Caesar), a fine pot of chicken-liver pâté folded with walnuts, raisins, and plenty of schmaltz, and an opulent bowl of that old Low Country favorite, she-crab soup, laced with crab roe and cream and served with a little boat of sherry on the side.
Edna Lewis favored a slightly more classic brand of country cooking during her time at Gage & Tollner (pan-fried quail, bowls of catfish stew), which may be why you can get a proper basket of fried chicken here (milk brined and dusted in cornmeal), along with more traditional comfort-food favorites, such as helpings of roast chicken breast (with buttermilk mashed potatoes), baked head-on sea bass, and a saucer-size pork pie large enough to feed a family of four. The requisite steaks and chops are plenty large too, and if you wish to splurge on just one of them, I recommend the grandiose, well-charred bone-in rib eye, which is priced by the ounce but still ends up costing roughly a third less than the obsessively aged gourmet côtes de boeuf that are all the rage at the grand dining palaces across the river.
Like the older versions of Gage & Tollner, the new one has a pleasingly local flavor to it. On the evenings I dropped in, the room was filled with gossiping Brooklyn newspaper people, solitary gentlemen enjoying their chicken dinners at the bar, and groups of alte kakers shuffling to and fro in giant orthotic sneakers with their crinkly paper masks still dangling from their chins. The artfully pleasing, unfussy desserts, by the noted Kings County baker and pastry chef Caroline Schiff, seem designed with this crowd in mind. You can order simple scoops of ice cream piled in frosty bowls and assorted cheeses served with “seasonal” jams. There are excellent ready-made cakes and tarts (get the chocolate torte with caramel), and if you’re in a celebratory mood, there’s a stout, nonflammable version of that old 19th-century favorite, baked Alaska, which is as big as a hatbox and crusted with great waves of meringue.
Open: Dinner Wednesday to Sunday.
Prices: Appetizers, $14 to $28; entrées, $24 to $36; steaks and chops are priced by the ounce.
Ideal Meal: Crab cake, clams Kimsino and/or she-crab soup, Caesar salad, bone-in rib eye, chocolate torte and/or baked Alaska.
Note: This is already one of the best new drinks programs in the city, and it will get better when Frizell’s Sunken Harbor Club bar opens upstairs later this year.

We could eat here for days,” my friend the barbecue loon said with tremors of joy in his voice as we stood in line not long ago at the Hudson Smokehouse in the South Bronx and contemplated the bounty up on the great blackboard menu. There were slabs of brisket and smoked turkey breast sold by the half-pound, full and half-racks of pork ribs, and supersize helpings of freshly sizzled pork cracklings seasoned with chile pepper for $6 apiece. There was a house smash burger, and there were eight kinds of sandwiches — one the daunting “Hat Trick” made with three kinds of pork, including the aforementioned cracklings. I think I counted seven varieties of chicken wing, which are smoked and then finished in the fryer (Buffalo, jerk, and barbecue, to name a few), along with a blizzard of sides, including roasted Brussels sprouts, two coleslaws (vinegar and creamy), and a deadly sounding creation called “cheesy potatoes.”
“This is a full-service operation,” said one of the beef connoisseurs we met while standing in line, a gentleman from Nanuet, in Rockland County, just across the Hudson River. He said he makes regular pilgrimages on Saturdays, which is the day when the pitmaster, Kenneth McPartlan, smokes weekly specials like pastrami, which our friend considered to be the second-best pastrami in all the city (“It is not quite as good as Katz’s”), and a giant Texas-style bone-in beef rib that is served up on butcher paper and a metal tray, just the way it’s done in the Hill Country around Austin. Others in the line espoused their own favorites: Two elegant ladies dressed in their weekend best were here for the chicken; two cops on their lunch break recommended the brisket. “It’s a heavy sandwich for lunch, but it’s a good sandwich,” one of them said before his radio crackled and they drove off with their carryout in a cruiser.
McPartlan is a bar owner by trade (his family has been running the same tavern on East 149th Street since the ’30s). A couple of years ago, he and a partner bought a second-hand smoker “from some guy in Jersey,” as he puts it, with the idea of bringing to the Bronx the kind of barbecue revolution that has been unfolding for years now in Brooklyn. They renovated a former bar space in a western-saloon motif (sturdy oak tabletops, lampshades shaped like wooden barrels) and opened days before the city shut down in March 2020. The restaurant survived on PPP money and a now-thriving delivery business, and McPartlan used the time to hone his self-taught pitmaster skills and techniques, which he says are influenced by the great dry-rub schools of the Midwest (“We’re a combo of Kansas City and St. Louis”) and the smoke artists from the Carolinas and Texas.
When we sampled them, the house pork ribs had a nice bark on their exterior but were loose and tender inside, and the combination of spice and smoke didn’t overwhelm the essential porkiness of the meat. The same was true of the excellent rib tips, which are stacked in little paper boats, and also the soft, candied pork-belly burnt ends, tossed in a classically sticky barbecue sauce. The brisket, we generally agreed, was a good, honest example of the genre, although it needed a little more deckle-cut heft to challenge the blue-ribbon champs at places like Hometown. The chicken was on the dry side when we ordered it, although the smoked wings, in all of their multi-flavored splendor (try the jerk and the vinegary, mayo-based “Alabama White”), are worth a special trip.
The thing that separates this neighborly barbecue shack from others around the city is the sides, many of which taste as though they’ve been beamed into this little corner of the Bronx from some ethereal country kitchen in the sky. McPartlan assures us this isn’t true — the sides are the work of a talented cook named Bilal Muhammad — but he learned from the bar business that variety is the secret spice of a good, buzzy hospitality operation. Thus those two coleslaws, one sauced with vinegar, the other a classic “creamy” variety made with strips of red bell pepper for an extra vegetable-garden crunch. I identified at least three kinds of bean in the house baked beans, which are folded with chunks of apple and remind you of something you’d find at a Thanksgiving dinner. Ditto the green beans and bacon and the dense slabs of cornbread, which taste of real corn, the way the best masa cakes do, and are spread with sugar and honey on top.
Timing is everything in the quirky realm of real smoked barbecue, and the best time to visit, as mentioned, is on Saturdays, when the meat is fresh from the smoker, salsa bands set up on the street in clement weather, and there’s plenty of time after lunch to digest your leisurely afternoon meal. The pastrami isn’t quite as good as Katz’s, it’s true, but I don’t think I’ve encountered anything like the deeply smoky beef rib outside of the barbecue temples around Austin; it is crusted with garlic crystals, along with the usual clouds of salt and pepper, and cooked overnight for 16 hours. I don’t recommend consuming any of the deep-fried dessert options afterward (there are six, including deep-fried Oreos, Twinkies, and Snickers bars), but the cool, soothing banana pudding is the perfect antidote to a pleasant case of barbecue daze on a hot summer afternoon.
Open: Lunch and dinner Tuesday through Sunday.
Prices: Side dishes and appetizers, $3 to $6; mains, $10 to $38.
Recommended dishes: Pork ribs, rib tips, beef rib (Saturdays only), jerk and Buffalo wings, creamy coleslaw, baked beans, cornbread, banana pudding.
Note: The barbecue can sell out quickly, so it pays to arrive early — especially on busy weekends.

Whether it’s the potted club music, the endlessly tweaked and updated Negronis at the crowded bar, or the numbingly familiar raw fluke and rustic bucatini preparations on the menu, there tends to be a certain sameness to new restaurants in the big city. Every once in a while, however, a place comes along like the Palestinian Al Badawi, which has been open for a few months now on Atlantic Avenue, that makes you feel like you’re entering another world. The facade is strung with garlands of bright plastic flowers, and the spacious room inside smells of cinnamon, sumac, and freshly baked bread. The tables are cut from twisting tree logs and set with clay cups. There’s a live wall of ferns on one side of the room and a fresco on the other, depicting the Dome of the Rock entwined in the world’s oldest olive tree, which is in Palestine, the servers will say, and for which the restaurant is named.
Al Badawi is the latest venture from the industrious couple Abdul Elenani and Ayat Masoud. She’s a lawyer who grew up in Brooklyn (her parents emigrated from Jerusalem) and he’s an enthusiastic entrepreneur who over the years has run an eclectic portfolio of dining establishments (multiple coffee shops and a Belgian frites bar), along with a farm, where much of the halal meat for their restaurants is sourced, and a contracting business. A couple of years back they opened the popular Bay Ridge restaurant Ayat, which was named for Masoud, an accomplished cook who wished to showcase the kind of traditional, homestyle pilafs and chicken and lamb stews from the kitchens of the West Bank and Jordan that you don’t normally encounter among the usual shawarma and kebabs and mezze platters at Middle Eastern restaurants in New York City.
Many of these enticing recipes are on display at this ambitious, 100-seat restaurant too, like okra and beef bamia stew, rolled stacks of stuffed malfouf cabbage leaves, and platters of sumac-dusted musakhan chicken served over taboon bread that is spread with sweet, gently dissolved onions.
There’s a domed oven at the front of the house, which turns out wafer-thin wheels of sajj bread that you can enjoy with a dizzying variety of toppings like crushed pistachios; shreds of beef and chicken; or even that local Brooklyn delicacy, mozzarella cheese. Stacks of bread keep arriving during the course of dinner too, and if you’re a bloated critic who likes to order a little of everything on the menu, it can take some time to get your bearings as the multitude of mezzes (I counted 20) and bountiful portions of beef shanks and lamb chops and ouzi proteins clatter down on the table.
Our first salvo of dishes at Al Badawi began with the aforementioned meat and rice-stuffed malfouf cabbage leaves as well as servings of wara dawali, warm, hand-rolled grape leaves stuffed with loose deposits of tomatoes, onions, and freshly cooked rice. The wonderful mezze platter included a rich, freshly mixed hummus, alongside another Levantine speciality called muhammarah, made with ground red peppers, walnuts, and a dose of pomegranate syrup, all presented in a red dish the size of a small wagon wheel.
As with everything on the menu, the grilled lamb chops that followed had a just-cooked, homestyle quality to them, and so did the crisp-skinned musakhan, which fell apart as we ate it with the chunks of toasty taboon bread underneath. Like good barbecue, this oniony, salty-sweet, sumac-infused chicken has a way of lingering in the deep recesses of the brain for a day or two after you’ve enjoyed it, and the same is true of other delicacies like the great fattat jaj (shreds of chicken folded with slivered almonds and minty yogurt in small mountains of rice) and the lamb-rich mansaf, which arrived at our table with the kind of ritual ceremony (bread, gravy, a giant family-size platter) that attends a proper roast beef dinner in the West. The chunks of bone-in lamb are simmered to a fatty tenderness with shavings of dried, fermented yogurt, then set over layers of sajj bread and piles of yellow rice, all of it scented with cinnamon. As with the chicken, the lamb comes apart easily and mingles with the bread and rice, which we softened as we ate with rich spoonfuls of lamb-and-yogurt drippings that are served in a bowl on the side.
Will you have room after your giant-size portion of mansaf — there are two equally intimidating family-style options for parties of up to six and eight — for a taste of the chicken or beef shawarma sandwiches (toasted like a panini on the griddle) or one of the many kinds of manakish flatbread offerings that are served at this boisterous establishment, like the finest Brooklyn pizza, on elevated metal trays? If you do, my party of tasters and I recommend the mixed chicken and beef sandwich, and the “seven cheese” option, although we agreed to save the copious seafood offerings for a later visit (yes, a whole red snapper is available with a side of rice and lemon potatoes), along with the kebabs (seven varieties, including filet mignon) and the new round of desserts, which to our great relief were being “reworked,” according to our server, but will be back on the menu soon.
Open: 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. daily
Prices: Appetizers $3 to $27, mains $10 to $270 for the family-style ouzi lamb.
Recommended dishes: Mezze filistini, chicken musakhan or lamb chops, fattat jaj chicken pilaf, and lamb and yogurt mansaf.
Note: If you’re dining for one or two, the bar up front by the oven is one of the better seats in the house. Al Badawi is a BYOB establishment.

Since it opened in May, the restaurant has gone from a whispered tip among those who know to a near-impossible booking for those who can. The best reservation I could manage during a sleepy week in dog-day August was for 5:30 p.m., an hour that doesn’t incline to libertinism. On the upside, if you’re eating the kind of bistro cooking that requires an alp-size mound of butter like the one that is clearly visible over chef Max Mackinnon’s shoulder in the open kitchen, you may cherish the extra time to digest.
Libertine is a collaboration between Mackinnon, who has cooked in various global culinary capitals (San Francisco, Copenhagen, Austin) and most recently worked as a wine director at Roberta’s and Jupiter, and Cody Pruitt, the general manager and beverage director of the nearby wine bar Anfora. Its spiritual home is the Auvergne in central France, a region that is both unpolished — “kind of feral,” as Pruitt puts it — and sacred to the creation of the bistro genre historically. “The Lyonnais take credit, but I’ll fight them for it,” he says. Rakishly unbuttoned and vocationally tattooed (FEED AMUSE SHOCK, reads his meaty forearm), he stood over our table one night and launched into a misty, abbreviated account touching on mining, the railroad, and the Franco-Prussian War. The Auvergnats who came to Paris to deliver coal soon began setting up establishments to offer cheap, hearty grub to all of the city’s occupants and new arrivals. (Lore says, probably unprovably, that bistrot derives from the Russian word for “quick,” as in “Feed me, quick!”) To this day, Auvergnats “retain a strong hold on the city’s bistro culture,” the natural-wine evangelist Aaron Ayscough has written, noting that Auvergne itself, with its rich volcanic soil and tiny production, has in recent years become “the unlikely ground zero for a radical natural wine new wave.” The wines of that wave fill out Libertine’s list, by both the bottle and the glass, including from local heroes like Patrick Bouju of Domaine la Bohème. (Try his great Festejar sparkling Gamay, one of my gateway bottles into naturophilia.)
A few hearty dinners are enough to canvass the full chalkboard. Whatever your path, I’d start with a ripped hunk of excellent baguette, made by Breads Bakery and served with a ramekin of runoff from Mont Beurre, which can be optionally oiled further, I learned during my first visit, with a loose tangle of anchovies. Better still, during my second, I had it with a delicious chicken liver moussed within an inch of its life, like offal frosting. Equally rich, though less successful, were scallops, barely broiled in their shell beneath a wakame-infused butter sauce in which my table struggled to detect any hint of seaweed. A brawny beef tartare was better, rough-chopped and crowned with Romanesque (Alison) jammy boiled eggs and crispy shallots. It was hard to know what to make of a lobster chou farci, a $36 appetizer whose tender but underseasoned meat had been wrapped in cabbage. But why?
This kind of sticker shock sullies much of the menu. It is ungenerous to complain about restaurant prices as inflation sends ingredient and labor costs up and the pandemic recedes slowly, if at all. But the prices at Libertine are at odds with its bistro ambitions. Half a heritage chicken, served in a sauce of vin jaune, an oxidative, almond-scented wine from the Jura, has designer-bird pedigree and arrives at the table with one gnarled foot still attached. “I’ve had that chicken come back with fewer toes than it came out with,” our waiter said. Some people decorously drape a napkin over it, bashful; others use it to grip a wineglass for a photo. Status chickens around the city have been employing the claw move for years, but it’s not worth much if the meat doesn’t sing. At $64, Libertine’s doesn’t. The roast chicken at Le Crocodile, from the previous generation of “It” French restaurants, is better at $39. And rather than a frilled reef of maitake mushroom — Libertine’s garnish of choice — it comes with fries.
It’s a shame because the kitchen is capable of great things. The one entrée at Libertine that hasn’t left my mind is a $34 housemade pork sausage, vibrating with garlic and mustard, served with a nearly liquid pommes purée. I can’t say the same for the monkfish à la Normande, with Calvados and horseradish, or the $72 duck deux façons, which might stretch to serve two but not a hungry two: seared breast and a sort of Auvergnat shepherd’s pie of confit leg under a duvet of cheese-and-egg-larded potatoes. Too many dishes, entrées especially, hover in this nebulous zone of fine but forgettable everywhere except the check.
A better use of the Calvados, Norman apple brandy, is a bracing shot of it served ice cold, what’s known as a trou Normand, meant to dig a hole in the appetite between courses. (Trou is “hole,” as in trou du cul, something you’d hope not to be called in any Paris wine bar.) The bottle comes rimy with frost, like many of the cocktails that may precede it, the gift of Pruitt’s oversize Japanese freezer, which takes up an full and impressive third of the bar’s service area. After the shot, what you do with your freed-up space is up to you.
The kitchen is still working out dessert. You could have a plop of rice pudding, or a plop of chocolate mousse, served with a trendy spoonful of Chartreuse-infused crème fraîche. (So trendy, in fact, that the monks who make the real herbal liqueur in France can’t keep up with the rising demand because it takes too much of their focus away from God.) The libertine spirit compels excess, but — not to be a trou du cul — I’d skip. Better to go out on a few thin planks of 30-month-aged Comté, crunching with salty crystals and perfect in their rich simplicity.

His is a convert’s zeal. Noodles in Japan tend to be divided along geographic lines; soba is associated with the east, wheat-based noodles like udon with the west. Kotani is from Himeji in the south-central Hyogo Prefecture, which is famous for its wheat-flour somen noodles. He eventually moved to restaurants in Yokohama and Tokyo — soba country — and since relocating to New York in 2008, he has devoted himself to buckwheat. He founded Worldwide Soba, Inc., under whose banner he teaches soba classes and sells his own line of soba noodles, called Towari. Last month, Kotani opened Uzuki at the back of a warehouse in North Brooklyn.
Any meal at Uzuki (Japanese for “April”) is by design a buckwheat tour. This also means the entire restaurant, down to its beer, is gluten free. Start with soba neri tofu (homemade tofu with buckwheat flour, sesame, and soy), a wiggling cube of milky curd with a soft sweetness reminiscent of red-bean paste, or soba crackers (homemade junk food). Gomaae, the cool spinach-and-seaweed salad that is a sushi-bar staple, is dressed with a creamy sesame paste, which gave me an entrepreneurial vision of peanut-butter-and-roughage sandwiches that I might patent to finally make my millions. Just as good was a tiny platter of miso paste studded with little pops of crunchy buckwheat seeds. The stuff radiates umami with a flavor that lasts forever. It is salty, sweet, faintly electric — it hums on the tongue.
But we are here for soba noodles. Kotani spends time crafting vessels to do them justice: gibbous, altarlike ceramic bowls that tilt their faces forward like handmade versions of the clamshell Venus floated in on. There are hot variations and cold. Chilled noodles cut with matcha are generally showcases for seafood, crowned with raw salmon, slippery lobes of uni, or both in the deluxe sashimi bowl, which has the added benefit of tuna, yellowtail, scallops, and a single translucent shrimp. This is delicious — though extravagant at $72 — and more subtle than explosive.
My dream soba leans toward extroversion. For that, there is duck shio soba. One is meant, I’m sure, to ogle the tender, gamy slices of roasted duck breast and confited legs, not to mention the noodles, soft yet snappy with an almost tannic bitterness. But the real highlight is the broth, slick and spicy and brightened with yuzu. It burbles for six hours, one of the cooks told me; I would have believed it simmered for days. It is so good I liked it equally well without any duck at all, in the ume shio soba, with little more to dress it up than noodles, scallions, a zingy little pile of umeboshi (Japanese pickled plums), and swollen bubbles of buckwheat to chase around the bottom of the bowl.
This experience is worth extending, which the staff will do, topping off a diminishing bowl with a teapot’s glug of soba-yu (noodle cooking broth). Finish with a cool, minty, medicinal scoop of Kotani’s shiso-leaf sorbet or — you’ve come this far, embrace the monomania — soba ice cream, eggy and luscious, as if brown bread could melt.
Kotani presides over the whole with a hushed authority. A quorum of cooks works busily beside him in near silence, quiet enough to hear the Hampton Hawes Trio on the stereo. While service is still smoothing itself out — you can go longer than you may like without placing an order or finding a napkin — the pervading mood is one of contented calm. It’s not the soba noodle that Uzuki has introduced to New York, but the soba oasis. Not every restaurant has the gestalt to set a behavioral tone, yet it feels impossible to be loud here.
For the past few years, Greenpoint has been undergoing a thrilling and concerted Japanification thanks in large part to a local Japanese architect, Aki Miyazono, who is Kotani’s partner in the restaurant. Uzuki shares the building with Cibone, a Japanese home-goods gallery where you can buy kintsugi ceramics and handmade tea bowls; House, a tasting-menu restaurant; and a New York outpost of Dashi Okume, which has been selling dashi since 1871. (There is a build-your-own dashi station, like a Dylan’s Candy Bar of desiccated squid, bonito, and kelp.) Across the street is Bin Bin, “a sake shop for natural-wine lovers.” There are bento boxes and homemade pastries at Acre café on Meserole Avenue and sencha or soba-cha (buckwheat tea) at Kettl up the road. And now, Uzuki. It is a worthy addition to the landscape.

Whenever the Underground Gourmet goes on the hunt for something new and exciting to eat in Greenwich Village, we head straight to 8th Street. The blocks that run from Broadway to Sixth Avenue attract their share of chains, including a Dunkin’ Donuts, a Chipotle, and a Domino’s Pizza. But interspersed among them lies a small fleet of indie gems. The only problem with this fleet is that it is fleeting. Good restaurants come and good restaurants go. No sooner do you discover the purveyor of a first-rate Persian ash-e reshteh than it is packed up and replaced by a Yunnanese tofu-pudding specialist; blink and the Basque cookie bakery has morphed into a French wine bar.
The latest player in this game of culinary musical chairs is the 12-seat counter-service Cafedelia, an unassuming little Georgian restaurant that recently moved into the kitchen of the late great chickpea master Sunshine Hummus. All the cheesy breads and hearty dishes of the Republic of Georgia that have become increasingly popular in New York are here. Business partners Ramaz Kiknadze and Zurab Kikiani say the menu is a fast-casual version of their Georgian Deli and Bakery, a takeout shop they run in Bath Beach. All too aware of the mayflylike life span of the average 8th Street restaurant, the U.G. adopted a get-it-while-the-getting-is-good tactic and ordered practically the entire Cafedelia menu the other day. Most everything was good, and what wasn’t good was great. The chicken-meatball soup was rich and herby. The spicy beef stew called chashushuli had everything you could ask for in a spicy beef stew, plus salad, pickles, and an un-Georgian helping of mashed potatoes on the side. The adjaruli khachapuri (the baked-to-order bread bowl shaped like a canoe, its belly brimming with melted cheese and an egg yolk on top) did not disappoint — how could it? And our order of khinkali (three juicy meat-stuffed dumplings pleated like old-fashioned hangover ice packs) made us wonder why xiao long bao is the last word on the subject of soup dumplings in this town. For dessert, the honey-caramel cake gave the lie to the notion that Georgians do not take their sweets seriously. All told, our Georgian feast left us tremendously full and wholly impressed. We’re adding Cafedelia to our list of 8th Street gems. We hope it sticks around for a while.

Before New York was a bagels-lox-and-cream-cheese town it was a herring town. The founding Dutch were pickled-herring addicts to a one. The English and Germans were smitten with the stuff, too. Ditto the Scandinavians. (The small fatty fish had an outsize impact on the economies and diets of much of Northern and Eastern Europe, especially after the Dutch came up with a way to preserve them for transport.) Eventually, though, herring in New York became indelibly linked with Jewish appetizing. Joel Russ, the man behind the most famous Jewish appetizing store in the world, did not get his start 120 years ago selling novi and babka to Sunday brunchers, but rather peddling pickled herring from a barrel on the street.
Back then, herring was a pretty hot commodity—an everyday protein for the waves of immigrants who had developed a taste for it. Times have changed. Among old-school noshers (the Underground Gourmet included), herring still exerts a nostalgic pull. We can’t resist a sampler plate washed down with a couple ice-cold shots of aquavit at the bar at Aquavit in midtown. And the sight of all those stainless-steel bins of herring variously sauced and pickled in the display case at Russ & Daughters never fails to induce in us a drooly response that would have greatly interested the late Ivan Petrovich Pavlov.
But if herring used to enjoy something like mass appeal, it’s safe to say that in recent years its fan base has dwindled. In a nine-item list on the Jewish-food website Nosher called “The Ultimate Ranking of the Grossest Jewish Food,” herring gets double billing: in its familiar pickled form and for its role as a supporting player in the Russian dish “herring under a fur coat,” which also contains chopped egg, beets, potato, carrot, and mayo. Regarding this blasphemy, the half-Jewish author, Shannon Sarna, writes apologetically: “Personally, I love herring, especially for brunch or with lots of cold vodka. But many, many others (including lots of you readers) really hate the stuff.”
Even herring odes masquerade as herring slams. In another list, this one taking the form of a 256-page book called The 100 Most Jewish Foods, illustrator Maira Kalman reveals that as a child in the Bronx she was the oddball in her family who found herring repulsive. “They stank,” she writes. “They were oily and, in my opinion, hairy. Though I know a fish can’t be hairy. But when my mother would eat a piece, I would see all these hairlike bones sticking out of her mouth.” As the years went by, however, Kalman came around and developed a taste for the hirsute things. Many never do. A dearly departed paterfamilias of the U.G.’s who otherwise yielded to none in his appetite for appetizing never overcame his fear of herring. He did, however, love the classic Swedish preparation of cream sauce and pickled-white-onion slices that shops like Russ & Daughters slosh over the fish, and he always managed to talk the counterman at his local store into selling him just the dressing. “I’ll take a tub of herring in cream sauce,” he’d say. “Hold the herring.”
So what to make of Sherry Herring, a counter-service sandwich specialist that opened recently on the Upper West Side and whose name leaves little doubt as to where its sympathies lie? The signature dish takes a fillet of herring (a choice of the young, tender matjes or the plumper, fatter schmaltz) where no fillet of herring has ever gone before: onto a French baguette with butter, sour cream, white onion, sliced chiles, and cherry tomatoes that the open-kitchen crew squeeze like lemons over the sandwich. It works.
In addition to herring, Sherry Herring offers a handful of other similarly dressed sandwiches including smoked sardines, salted anchovies, and a chipotle-tuna spread — all terrific. You can eat them at a counter ledge or outside the shop on a bench, but it’s better to take them three blocks to Central Park, allowing the flavors to meld muffuletta style along the way. For a no-holds-barred appetizing picnic, grab a pack of baguette crisps and some items from the refrigerator case, including herring in cream sauce, Israeli pickles, and what has to be New York’s new No. 1 smoked-whitefish salad — a rich and chunky concoction that will ruin you for all other versions. But herring is the thing at Sherry Herring, and, the owners would have you know, theirs is imported from a secret Holland source (as opposed to, say, Greenpoint, Brooklyn). Those owners include Israeli author and former food columnist Sherry Ansky, the Sherry in Sherry Herring and something like the Ina Garten of Tel Aviv.
For Ansky, herring was not an acquired taste; as the story goes, she had her first herring plate at age six and never looked back. “I ate one piece, then another, until I finished it all,” she told The Jewish Week.
Ansky’s daughter, Michal, also an Israeli food celebrity and a Top Chef Masters judge, runs a popular market in the port of Tel Aviv that looks like a cross between Eataly and the old Essex Market. In 2011, Ansky quit her newspaper-column job and announced that she wanted to make herring sandwiches and sell them from a kiosk at Michal’s market. To the Israeli food cognoscenti, the news came as a shock. “Everyone thought she’d gone meshuga,” says Michal. But the sandwiches took off. Herring aficionados flocked. Tourists made pilgrimages. Somebody Feed Phil’s Phil Rosenthal showed up and crowed: “It’s one of the best sandwiches I’ve ever had in my stupid life.”
Sherry Herring is not the first place to serve herring sandwiches in New York. Shelsky’s in Brooklyn and Barney Greengrass dabble. For its annual New-Catch Holland Herring festival, Russ & Daughters has served fresh herring fillets with chopped onions and cornichons on a soft custom-baked bun in the style of the Dutch treat known as a broodje haring. And, of course, many Nordic kitchens over the years have trafficked in the open-faced wonder that is the herring smørrebrød. Some herring snobs look askance at sandwiches as a masker of pure piquant herring flavor. As herring for dummies. Herring for people who don’t like herring. This venerable fish, according to the orthodoxy, should be eaten straight up with a raw onion chaser and a slice of black bread. But a more broad-minded perspective would be to consider the herring sandwich — like herring in cream sauce — as a gateway herring for the uninitiated.
Besides the imported Dutch herring, what distinguishes a Sherry Herring sandwich from local renditions are the condiments and the baguette. The loaves, like the shop, are kosher, and come from the Jersey-based Patis bakery. Even so, this being New York and more to the point, the Upper West Side, the idea of plopping the smoked and cured totems of appetizing on French bread was not received without the obligatory round of kvetching. People wondered, Where are the bagels? “They kept asking about them,” says Sherry Herring general manager Alex Benchimol. “They wouldn’t stop.” So now the kitchen offers a couple specials made with Bagel Boss bagels (you can get yours stuffed with smoked salmon, or whitefish salad, or tuna spread, but they draw the line at the signature herring). How are they doing? “We sell way more baguette sandwiches than bagel sandwiches,” says Benchimol. “But on Sundays, the bagels definitely make some noise.” What about the herring? “The matjes is our number one sandwich.”
245 W. 72nd St., nr. Broadway; 646-863-2347

In the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of appetites and styles that define “fashion” in the restaurant world, there are those places that tend to exude a sense of the current moment when you walk in the door and those that do not. Andrew Carmellini’s new surf-and-turf venture, Carne Mare, which opened not long ago down in the new Pier 17 development at the old Fulton Seaport, fits squarely into the latter category. The walls of the two-story space are painted in shades of rusty steakhouse red. The lighting is dim, like in a mid-20th-century cocktail saloon; the gently thrumming Vegas-club soundtrack seems to grow louder as dinner progresses; and the rows of great, walrus-size banquettes have clearly been designed for the consumption of large red-meat dinners instead of, say, the lighter, more trendy “plant-based” meals that are popular around town these days.
“Are we in Vegas or New York?” someone asked as we scanned the menus, which were passed around the table by bustling servers dressed like old-fashioned hotel bellhops, in tight-fitting burgundy-colored jackets. A loquacious gentleman from Parma recited the specialties of the house, which included pink-shelled legs of Alaskan king crab served with fresh whipped lemon aïoli, and an elaborate play on the old chophouse wedge salad called “The House Wedgini.” There were mozzarella sticks dabbed with caviar available for the pre-pandemic price of 24 bucks, and towering helpings of spaghetti topped with chunks of lobster for twice that price. There was a whole roast duck “d’Ivan,” inspired by a recipe the chef had come across during his travels in Italy, and two kinds of Wagyu, one of which Carmellini and his crew cured in a smothering of Gorgonzola cheese.
I can’t remember precisely which dishes arrived first at our walrus banquette, but to my slight surprise, most of them were constructed with precision and care, and many were delicious. I’m thinking of “chophouse snacks” like fresh little lettuce cups of crab dressed with an Italian version of Sichuan chile crisp made with Calabrian chile oil, and the grilled oysters, which are seized in a stiff Parmesan crust and presented atop a little bed of seashells. The caviar cheese sticks will probably prove irresistible to the Instagram-minded at your table, but there is also a variety of other presentable seafood appetizers to choose from (try the yellowfin-tuna tartare), and the rice balls dressed with bits of uni taste better than the caviar sticks (and are almost as photogenic) at roughly half the price.
“This place is better than I expected,” said a merry carnivore of my acquaintance, as he dug happily into his House Wedgini, which was enlivened with generous crumblings of Gorgonzola and bits of pancetta. Carmellini’s one contribution to the current plant-based craze — a 12-ounce roasted “beet-steak” that is carved with great ceremony at tableside — was better than expected, too, although unlike other beet creations I’ve sampled, this one benefits from a garnish of gently melting goat butter. The tender salt-baked black sea bass was also better than expected (in addition to the salt, it’s wrapped in fig leaves), although if you want to save room for the “Steaks and Chops” portion of dinner, you’ll want to avoid the aforementioned “spicy” lobster spaghetti, which was so large and rich that it caused several guests on one of my visits to lapse into a food-induced daze from which they never fully recovered.
The real reason to visit Carne Mare is for the steaks and chops, however, and if you’re still standing after the preliminary salvo of dishes, and if you have the cash, they’re impressive. Those two workhorses of the big-city steakhouse experience — the boneless New York strip loin and the rib eye — drew multiple thumbs-up from the beef eaters at the table, and so did the thick, tender “Cowboy” version of veal Milanese, which the kitchen covers in the customary bread-crumb crust and serves on the bone with a large wedge of lemon. My excellent 16-ounce cut of prime rib was rubbed with the same potent blend of herbs and spices that you’ll find in a properly seasoned Tuscan porchetta, and the bizarre-sounding Gorgonzola-cured Wagyu strip turned out to be an ingenious dissertation on the tangy, back-of-the-mouth pleasures of umami.
You can get a cavalcade of Italian-themed side dishes (“mushroom Marsala,” “sweet summer corn cacio e pepe”) to go with all this heavy chophouse grub, although at least one traditionalist at the table would have enjoyed a spoonful or two of creamed spinach or mashed potatoes instead of gouts of gooey, cheese-laced polenta. The Italianate desserts, however, are much better than the usual cliché beef-house puddings and pies. There’s a smooth panna cotta poured with a compote of summer berries, and a cooling selection of gelati and sorbets dressed with caramel sauces and bits of candied citrus. If you really want to travel back to the pre-pandemic days of fat-cat porterhouse dinners and the three-martini expense-account lunch, call for the impressive 17-layer chocolate cake, which is tinged with espresso and crowned with a gold-leaf-covered cherry on top.
Open: Dinner, Wednesday through Sunday
Prices: Appetizers, $10 to $24; entrées, $36 to $185
Recommended dishes: Grilled oysters, King crab lettuce cups, salt-baked black sea bass, prime rib, boneless rib eye, Gorgonzola-cured Wagyu strip loin, sweet cream panna cotta.
Note: If two-fisted drinking is your thing, the large downstairs bar area is the place to be. Pay attention to the impressive list of aperitivi made with a variety of bitters and digestifs.

Sartiano’s, which has taken over the space vacated by Jean-Georges Vongerichten’s Mercer Kitchen in the Mercer hotel, is not a private club, though it can often feel like one. Scott Sartiano, its owner and namesake, has one of those, too: Zero Bond, the members-only establishment a few blocks north that regularly hosts celebrities, money-men, and the mayor. No, Sartiano’s, in a dim cavern newly reupholstered by William Sofield, Tom Ford’s preferred store designer, is that more nebulous thing, a clubstaurant. Sartiano has been plying this kind of hybrid since at least 2002, when he opened Butter, an early-modern exemplar of the form. Butter had both a DJ and a chef de cuisine but was nevertheless open to anybody. These days, doors across town are locking tighter against the rabble, as those who wish to mix their meat with mingling barricade themselves against an intrusion of smartphone cameras and common citizens. While Sartiano’s is open to all, its mood is firmly “semi-private”; it joins the ranks of places that — if you have money and certain kinds of connections — are inner sanctums where everybody knows your name.
Since Sartiano’s opened in June, those names have included Paul McCartney, Martha Stewart, Gettys, Barbie herself (Margot Robbie, for a Chanel party), and James Marsden. During my first visit, Kim Kardashian, Lauren Sánchez, and Nicky Hilton commandeered a prime table with two camera-men and a lighting kit to capture it all.
Clearly, the food is not the point. It is, nevertheless, pretty good. Alfred Portale, a veteran of city fine dining with decades of experience and his own namesake restaurant on West 18th Street, supervises the menu, and the kitchen is in the hands of Chris Lewnes, who worked at Bâtard, Augustine, and American Brass. The menu is Jersey Italian à la Carbone, another big-macher joint for parsing the social strata. Navigate carefully and you can do surprisingly well. I couldn’t stop eating the tempura-battered fritto misto — steroidally puffy and salty as a bag of potato chips — plucking out the silver-dollar-size zucchini chips as well as the rock shrimp and squid. Among the pastas, we enjoyed bucatini tumbled with lobster in Calabrian-spiced tomato sauce and tender, creamy agnolotti brailled with little tablets of sweet corn.
Is that enough? Restaurants of this caliber are not rare in New York, and at most of them you don’t find an abandoned fake fingernail on your table as you’re seated. There are other places where one can get a cartoonishly giant, entirely pleasant veal parm, served with a deep-fried axle of bone, and a well-cooked pork chop (Portale, for example, serves a not dissimilar one at his own place).
Sartiano’s most distinguishing characteristic, its brittle veneer of exclusivity, is less appealing. Reservations are available on Resy, though not during prime hours; for those, the public is instructed to call or email. But show up without one, as I did early one pouring Monday night, and you can find yourself unwelcome. A host regretted, barely, that the tables — the lion’s share of which sat empty — were all reserved. “First come, first served at the bar,” he told us. Citing the weather (inclement) and the vacancy (omnipresent), I offered to leave a name or a phone number in case of any cancellation. The man was stone. No name. No number. With the most blistering disdain, patience exhausted, he repeated himself once more: “First come, first served at the bar.”
Okay! We found two seats around the side of the bar, which, being roughly waist high on one side, gave an ample view of a sink and nothing else. Easily the worst seats in the house (though curiously close to the private dining room). “Main Bar B,” as our bill identified it, was fenced in by a mirrored column, reflecting back our B-list selves. The one thing we were able to see was the second-worst seats, a table for two 20 paces away that went unused for the entire three hours we were there.
The mid-evening arrival of the Kardashian party was likely to blame for the depressed capacity. Or maybe it was the need to know exactly who was in each seat. Everyone at Sartiano’s, from the staff to the clientele, seemed alive to the possibility of an important encounter. “Just saying ‘hi’! Come and talk to us,” a drunkish woman yelled at me mid-meal from what I can only assume was “Main Bar A.” Ours was destined to be an aborted meet-cute, however. She had thought, and asked the bartender whether, I was Mark Zuckerberg.

Spotting hopeful dining trends isn’t easy these days, but if you look closely, it’s possible to divine a few green shoots of promise rising here and there around the city’s increasingly chilly, COVID-challenged restaurant landscape. Anyone who has perused the bountiful holiday delivery treats available around town knows that the takeout business continues to blossom. As an avid consumer of grains, sauces, and coffee beans, I have also enjoyed the new “pantry” option that has been sprouting up lately on local restaurants’ websites. Inventive Asian cooking at small, nimble establishments like Connie Chung’s excellent Chinese café, Milu, in the Flatiron District, seems to be on the upswing, too, and like at Milu, which Chung opened after a long stint at Eleven Madison Park, many of these accomplished chefs happen to be women.
Kay Hyun, whose latest East Village “Korean tapas” restaurant, Mokyo, opened in February, also labored for a variety of grand male chefs (Jean-Georges, Nobu) before striking out on her own. Her first popular East Village restaurant, Thursday Kitchen, specializes in comfort recipes like sweet-and-spicy popcorn chicken and empanadas stuffed with duck confit, but this latest venture has clearly been conceived with a slightly more intricate brand of cooking in mind. There are two varieties of Wagyu on the menu (steak and oxtail) and delicate salads made with winter persimmons and vinaigrettes flavored with cashew, and if you call for the house dumplings, you’ll find them folded around deposits of sweet-corn purée and set in pools of salsa verde touched with truffles.
In accordance with pandemic protocol, most of the tables at Mokyo are set up in rickety rows on the sidewalk along St. Marks Place, a street that is closed to traffic on weekends and turns, even on chilly evenings, into a kind of jamboree for outdoor dining. On the semi-frigid night I visited, music drifted from the open doors of other restaurants and skateboarders were grinding merrily up and down the street. We were presented with warming, complimentary shots of sake in small plastic soy-sauce containers, followed by crunchy wheels of katsu plantains stuck on yakitori sticks and the aforementioned dumplings, which were suffused with a delicious late-summer sweetness and constructed with the kind of high-end technique you don’t usually see coming from the ramen-noodle and street-café kitchens in the neighborhood.
The same was true for the other dishes we sampled at Mokyo, although Hyun, who grew up in the Korean port city of Busan, has a fondness for the kind of sweet flavor profiles that made me long, after a while, for a little punch of classic Korean umami and heat. If you’re looking for some heft at your windblown outdoor table, however, I suggest the cauliflower, which is garnished with Middle Eastern labneh and bits of torn mint and set, General Tso style, in an artful, sticky-sweet gochujang glaze. There are elegant spring rolls stuffed with oxtail, too, and a smooth fusion version of gumbo chock-full of crawfish and andouille sausage, which, after another slug or two of sake, I was happy to follow with a frosty scoop of mascarpone gelato and raspberry sauce as the winter wind swirled around my feet.
Like Hyun, Simone Tong worked at a variety of upscale kitchens around the city (wd~50, 15 East) before she made her reputation at her own smaller restaurant, in this case channeling the comfort-noodle cuisine of China’s Yunnan province at the much-praised Little Tong Noodle Shop in the East Village. Her latest venture, Silver Apricot, which opened this summer on Cornelia Street, is another jewel box of a place with a more ambitious agenda in mind. Instead of sweet corn, the wonton-style dumplings here are stuffed with seasonally appropriate honeynut squash and dressed with a whiff of salted egg yolk. The excellent crab rangoon is made with fresh peekytoe, among many other things, and if you call for the grilled prawns, you’ll find that they’re served with a velvet pool of grits instead of rice.
I didn’t taste much that was less than very good on my visits to Chef Tong’s restaurant, although one evening it was so cold we ended up eating our carryout dinner at home from a series of carefully packed paper boxes. There were Brussels sprouts tossed with frizzled shallots and little nickels of sweet Chinese sausage in this gift package as well as an exceptional (though, it must be said, diminutive by takeout standards) version of fried rice molded into a small circle and fried to a crunchy crisp on top. You can get this dish with an $18 supplement of uni, if you wish, but I’d save my money for the barbecue pulled pork (piled over a slice of deep-fried bao toast) and the delicious house panna cotta, which is folded with black sesame and brown butter and topped with a layer of puffed rice.
Mokyo, 109 St. Marks Pl., nr. Ave. A; no phone; mokyony.com
High marks for inventiveness, technique, and cheerfully efficient service under difficult circumstances.
Open: Tuesday through Sunday for dinner.
Prices: $11 to $15.
Ideal Meal: Corn dumplings or oxtail spring rolls, cauliflower, gumbo, “Pop Rocks” mascarpone.
Note: There was no tent or outside heating system set up on our visit, so dress warmly.
Silver Apricot, 20 Cornelia St., nr. Sixth Ave.; 929-367-8666; silverapricot.nyc
Kudos for the compact menu, which is full of pleasant surprises, and for the stylish little dining room, which we look forward to visiting in the spring.
Open: Dinner Wednesday through Sunday.
Prices: $10 to $36.
Ideal Meal: Crab rangoon, Brussels sprouts, fried rice, pork or steak, sesame panna cotta.
Note: The outdoor tent is equipped with heaters, and you can warm up with cups of hot-toddy apple cider.
*This article appears in the December 7, 2020, issue of New York Magazine. Subscribe Now!

When dining scholars sift through the ashes of this grim era for clues on how to survive the next Great Plague, the case of the little seafood spot called Dame, which has been open in one form or another since last year, will be one to study. As any fan can tell you, it began life in March 2020 as a pop-up in a Lower East Side coffee shop, then emerged a few months later in Greenwich Village as Dame Summer Club, a seasonal operation serving chef Ed Szymanski’s deliciously high-minded (and for thousands of cooped-up Instagram addicts, delicious-looking) version of fish and chips. In time, there were more attention-getting pop-up events and then, over the winter, after signing a long-term lease on their dream restaurant, Szymanski and his partner, Patricia Howard, opened a small pantry store selling wines, T-shirts, and jars of classically English potted shrimp, among other staples.
Now that dream restaurant has finally arrived, I’m guessing more or less as the intrepid owners always imagined it, in one of the jumble of storefronts and outdoor dining shanties along Macdougal Street. The façade is trimmed in blue, and the dining room is filled with neat rows of blond-wood-edged tables and counters. The sturdy outdoor space is lined with flower boxes and furnished with the kind of metal tables and blue-and-white-patterned plastic wicker chairs that you might find near the rocky beach of an English seaside town. The fish and chips remains on the menu, but it’s surrounded now by a revolving cast of dishes like grilled oysters spooned with fresh-whipped hollandaise, skewers of Montauk squid squeezed between grilled shishito peppers, and — if you happen to hit the right evening — piles of scrambled-egg kedgeree folded not with the usual salty kippers, the way they do in Scotland, but with nuggets of langoustine or uni.
Szymanski grew up in London and apprenticed at April Bloomfield’s star-crossed gastropub the Spotted Pig, and he has clearly been influenced by the kind of deeply flavored, deceptively sophisticated style of cooking that was pioneered in the early aughts by British masters like Fergus Henderson and Bloomfield here in the USA. The aforementioned oysters were delivered to our sidewalk table on a bed of white pebbles, and if you looked closely, you could see that their creamy hollandaise-covered tops were tinged with an elegant touch of green Chartreuse. They were accompanied by a salad of ripe late-summer tomatoes in a lightly creamy anchovy dressing and a pod of crunchy smoked-whitefish croquettes, which the kitchen serves straight from the fryer with an Italian-style red-pepper sauce for dipping and a dusting of lemon zest.
In between the sipping of Pimm’s Cups, classic styles of martini (there are three options), and perfectly balanced gin-and-tonics, it’s tempting to make a meal of these elegant bar dishes, and on my visits to Dame we almost did. We enjoyed warm slabs of toast stacked with generous piles of tuna tartare flavored with bottarga and spindles of kebab stuck with squares of monkfish that Szymanski and his cooks dress in a rich curry sauce in the London style and set on a cool bed of yogurt. Depending on the day, you might encounter helpings of sweet raw scallops paired with equally sweet Sungold tomatoes and plates of cucumbers tossed with smoked mussels and dill. Blowfish never tastes quite as thrilling as it sounds, but the version we had one rainy evening was enlivened with melting piment d’Espelette butter that we mopped up with chunks of sourdough bread.
When the fabled fish and chips finally arrives at this non-pop-up version of Dame, it’s almost as good as advertised: a curl of just-sizzled hake set atop a thatch of weighty, double-fried chips with tartar sauce and a cut of lemon on the side. As my Underground Gourmet colleagues have reported, the usual flour-and-beer batter has been lightened with a combination of rice flour and a hint of vodka, which gives the crust a feathery quality. It was the square-cut chips, however, that our table couldn’t seem to get enough of, and we enjoyed them with other classics like grilled mackerel (which tasted even better the next morning with my scrambled eggs), skate wing with chanterelles and potted shrimp, and a magisterial version of that great Galician fish, the turbot, served for two on an ornate old blue-and-white china platter smothered in garlic butter, roasted cockles, and a small cloud of parsley.
As at all serious seafood bistros along the English (or French, or Spanish) coast, the menu changes with the daily catch and the seasons, but the wine list — a quirky, well-chosen mix of seafood-friendly Euro-centric bottles (“What James Bond Is Drinking”) and more modestly priced, less traditional natural options (“What Austin Powers Is Drinking”) — is one that the wine loons at my table looked forward to exploring over time. I’ll be returning for the desserts, however, which seemed to get livelier with each visit. Surprisingly, that old U.K. cream-and-berry staple Eton Mess was the least lively of these, so if you’re in the mood for a proper taste of pudding, call for the custard tart (ours was dappled with tiny Champagne grapes and infused with the taste of elderflower) or a wedge of fruit torte that this excellent little kitchen produces hot from the oven with a scoop of crème fraîche on top.
Open: Dinner Tuesday to Saturday.
Prices: Appetizers, $5 to $24; entrées, $29 to $88 (market prices vary).
Recommended dishes: Curried monkfish kebab, fish and chips, turbot for two, plum torte.
Note: Reservations are hard to come by, but we had success showing up at six o’clock and loitering expectantly for one of the outside tables.

You really need a road map to find this place,” muttered someone at our table after making the long trek to the latest Danny Meyer venture, Ci Siamo — a journey that begins on some nameless sidewalk in midtown. (Pro tip: If your Uber driver attempts to career into the Lincoln Tunnel toward New Jersey, start yelling.) From there, you ascend to a featureless spot called Manhattan West Plaza in the back end of what may be Hudson Yards, complete with its own freshly minted Whole Foods. When you get to the entrance, there are several more darkened staircases to climb before you arrive, at long last, in a serpentine dining room that features many of the famous Meyer touches — a long bar designed for eating as well as drinking; comfortable, if slightly generic, décor (“Westchester Italian” is how one wag put it); and the usual bevy of eagerly smiling servers and hosts (you can tell by the brightly shining eyes over their firmly in-place face masks).
Like most proprietors of large dining brands in the past decade or so, Meyer has tended to pair his new ventures (Marta, Porchlight, Manhatta) with awkward new real-estate locations all over town. Ci Siamo (translation: “Here we are”) is another one of these, of course, though as soon as you’re settled at your table, you get a sense that this one may be different from the rest. The first drinks from the bar are excellent (a mocktail called the Tonio; the tall, vodka-based La Torcia; a classic Manhattan served with a sidecar set in a glass of crushed ice), and the slim, one-page menu is filled with dishes from Meyer’s old Mediterranean playbook, many of which (pizza bianca decked with anchovies, cheese-and-onion tarts, Roman and Neapolitan pasta favorites, roast chickens, and Florentine beefsteaks sizzled over a wood-fired grill) look as if they would be delicious to eat.
The kitchen at Ci Siamo is run by Hillary Sterling (formerly of the excellent Vic’s down on Great Jones Street), a chef whose reputation speaks for itself and one in a long line of talented cooks whom Meyer has recruited over the years, stretching back to Michael Romano, in the early Union Square Cafe days, and the young Tom Colicchio. Here, Sterling has a state-of-the-art wood-burning oven and grill at her disposal (using three kinds of wood — chestnut, maple, and oak — one of the well-briefed servers told us), and the dishes that emerge from it tend to combine sophistication with a natural, fresh-from-the-oven feel. These included, in the early going of our meal, steamy bowls of littleneck clams tasting of fennel and Calabrian chiles; the aforementioned anchovy pizza, which the kitchen splashes with salsa verde; and fat wheels of focaccia baked in cast-iron skillets.
“I think this might be one of the best things I’ve ever eaten,” said one guest as we inspected Sterling’s onion torta, a classic dissertation on the joys of old-fashioned Italian-style umami flavors, which featured layers of caramelized onions and two kinds of Pecorino (Romano and Toscano), all set on a crumbly pastry crust. There were also hearty bowls of that old COVID-era delicacy braised beans (“shelling beans,” for the record, enlivened with black olives and Parmigiano), and warm little balloons of the Emilia-Romagna specialty gnocco fritto. The hefty, almost overly bountiful bowls of pastas I tasted all had their charms, but if you have to choose just two, try the classic Roman alla gricia (made here with rigatoni) and the cavatelli allo Scoglio (named for the famous restaurant on the Amalfi Coast), which the kitchen folds with bits of lobster, among other things, and a touch of vermouth.
“Celebrating the beauty of simplicity” is the motto on the polished Ci Siamo website, which is filled with alluring images (iridescent cocktails, guanciale-smothered pastas, recently sizzled flaps of Florentine bistecca) that seem carefully designed to lure New Yorkers out of their apartments and back into crowded dining rooms. The bistecca we sampled was pricey ($135), like all bisteccas are these days, and also underwhelming, so call for braised lamb instead, which is chopped in smoky, fatty nuggets and tossed with Brussels sprouts, or Sterling’s formidable, pizza-size version of pork Milanese, which is served with wedges of lemon and dressed with torn bits of parsley. The smoked swordfish was our table’s favorite seafood option, though the dish I couldn’t get out of my mind was the simple roast half-chicken, which the kitchen fires on a bed of crushed sunchokes and pours with generous amounts of house-rendered schmaltz.
Is this very good, awkwardly located Danny Meyer establishment a “dining destination” in that nostalgic, pre-pandemic sense of the term? As long as Sterling is in the kitchen and you have the cash to spend and the fortitude to find it, I would say yes, it is. As with many Union Square Hospitality Group restaurants, there were the usual well-chosen Italian wines to enjoy with dinner, and after the plates were cleared away and dessert arrived, the usual cavalcade of frosty, housemade gelati. The discerning gelato critics at my table preferred the hazelnut and the smooth lemon gelato made with goat’s milk, though you can enjoy other delicacies — little bowls of “hearth roasted” figs; a rich chocolate budino scattered with smoked almonds; and a smooth, tangy slice of lemon tart drizzled with olive oil and topped with meringue — which you probably won’t find anywhere else in this strange, slightly soulless part of town.
Open: Dinner, Tuesday to Saturday.
Prices: Appetizers, $6 to $22; pastas and mains, $20 to $135.
Recommended dishes: Pizza bianca with anchovies, caramelized-onion torta, gnocco fritto, cavatelli allo Scoglio, roast chicken, braised lamb, pork Milanese, gelati, and lemon tart.
Note: Winter is coming back to the restaurant world, and possibly COVID is too. As of yet, there isn’t a large outdoor-dining operation in place.

So how do you enjoy a lavish feast from the south of India while dining indoors (because at Semma there’s a “hospital-quality air-filter system” but currently no outdoor dining) during the great Omicron spike with your KN95 mask firmly affixed to your face?
“You don’t, Dad,” said one daughter as we waited, a bit apprehensively, for dinner to arrive at the latest Chintan Pandya–Roni Mazumdar operation, which has been open for a couple of months now on Greenwich Avenue in the West Village.
“I think we scarf everything down really quickly, like we’re in the Army, Dad, and then we get out of here,” said the other daughter as alluring, though possibly messy, platters of mung-bean pancakes, great three-cornered dosas, and delicate helpings of stewed goat intestines (kudal varuval) began to clatter down on our table.
In spite of the city’s repeated, though slightly garbled, health guidelines, no other guests seemed to be wearing masks in the narrow, boisterous, increasingly crowded room, which, unlike Pandya and Mazumdar’s other hit restaurants (Adda, Dhamaka), looks less like a casual Indian canteen than a posh hotel bar in Mumbai, say, or the tourist precincts of Goa. The sleek, dimly lit space, which once housed Pandya and Mazumdar’s original New York venture, the star-crossed Rahi, has been redone in shades of woodsy, tropical brown. Rattan lampshades hang from the rafters, and the ceiling is covered with a pattern of woven bamboo designed to resemble the roof of a southern-Indian houseboat. Polished wood café tables are closely packed to enhance a noisy party atmosphere in the pre-COVID style, and the long bar in front is manned by barkeeps vigorously shaking up jauntily named fusion cocktails tinged with curry leaf and cardamom.
“I’m not taking my mask off for stewed goat intestines, Dad,” announced Daughter No. 2 as Dad attempted to shovel dainty bites of this fiery Tamil dish over his briefly lowered mask, before waving one arm wildly in the air and making frantic, muffled cries for a glass of water. The same thing happened with the excellent attu kari sukka lamb appetizer (flavored with slivers of coconut, plenty of black cardamom, and an impressive dose of Tellicherry peppers), though no one had any trouble tackling milder southern-Indian specialties like the crispy-edged mung-bean crêpe, or the vegetable-covered uttapam, a pancake made from pounded lentils and rice, or the golden-colored house dosa, which the kitchen seasons with black garam and chile “gunpowder” spice and folds like a large tri-corner napkin around a mash of spiced potatoes and onions.
As with the other “unapologetically Indian” establishments in the Pandya-Mazumdar portfolio, the idea behind Semma (“fantastic” in Tamil) is to introduce New Yorkers to regions of the Indian culinary map most have never experienced before, which in this case is the homestyle cooking of southern India, particularly the coastal state of Tamil Nadu. Instead of Pandya, however, the chef in the kitchen here is Vijay Kumar, who, according to our (well-masked) server, has conjured up many of these recipes from his rural childhood. These include the aforementioned goat intestines, vegetable dishes like simple bowls of mustard greens tossed with chunks of butternut squash, and the kind of tender little snails that he used to forage for as a child, flavored here with tamarind and ginger and served with spongy wheels of rice-and-lentil-based kal dosa.
I had enjoyed these snails on a previous, merrily unmasked visit, but when I broached the possibility of ordering them again, my increasingly grouchy guests (“I’m focusing more on this mask than the food, Dad!”) shook their heads in protest. The same thing happened when I mentioned the lobster tail in coconut milk and the signature, undeniably messy Kanyakumari nandu masala, a crab dish named for the town on India’s southern coast, which is reimagined here as a festive preorder group feast complete with plastic Maryland-style crab-boil bibs and a giant Dungeness crab flown in from the West Coast. “Imagine smelling that crab in your mask?” one of my dining companions said, at which point both they and their cousin (“We seem to be drinking less with these masks on, which is less exciting”) decided to abandon Dad’s little experiment altogether.
As a health-conscious working professional, Dad will continue with his personal mask mandate, however, especially when there’s no option to sit shivering outside in what’s shaping up to be another difficult, gloomy winter for New York restaurants and those of us who love them. Did my KN95 make a difference in how I experienced the rest of our dinner, which included snaky green long peppers drowned in an overly heavy peanut sauce; helpings of leaden, slightly gummy southern-style goat biryani that didn’t seem half as artful or satisfying as the goat’s-neck version available at Dhamaka; and what we all agreed were a couple of forgettable coconut-themed desserts? I suppose the answer is yes, though my daughters would like everyone to know that they noticed no difference between the dyspeptic critic in his sauce-stained mask and the forgetful, genially grumpy gentleman they see around the apartment every day.
Open: Dinner Tuesday through Sunday.
Prices: Small plates, $9 to $25; larger plates, $28 to $44; Dungeness crab for two, $125.
Recommended dishes: Nathai pirattal (snails), gunpowder dosa, parotta, kal dosa, valiya chemmeen moilee (lobster tail), Kanyakumari nandu masala (Dungeness crab for two).
Note: It’s suggested to order the crab two days in advance. There are potential plans to reopen an outdoor-dining space in the spring, but until then, the COVID-conscious should agitate for the slightly less crowded tables at the front of the house.

Whether you’re eating a samosa in Jackson Heights or ingesting a bowl of noodles in one of the city’s many Chinatowns, dining out in New York has always provided the illusion of travel to faraway lands. Even now, when we’re all living in our tiny, ever-narrowing COVID orbits, I would argue that this is still true. Just in the past few weeks, I’ve been teleported, briefly, to the duck houses of northern China (the “mandarin duck” at Milu) and the pizza temples of Naples (the classic margherita at Ribalta), so when news arrived, not long ago, of a newly opened Texan canteen called Yellow Rose on lower Third Avenue, I put on my wool cap and two layers of foul-weather gear and ambled over to the East Village to have a look.
Yellow Rose is the brainchild of Dave and Krystiana Rizo, an accomplished culinary couple who have been working the pop-up and restaurant circuits (Superiority Burger, Emmy Squared) for several years, ever since moving north from their native San Antonio. Neither is a fan of the dreaded “Tex-Mex” label, but with its bags of boutique stone-ground grits and yellow cornmeal for sale up front, a snug and now eerily deserted bar in the back, and pictures of Texas barbecues hung crookedly on the wall, the place has the look of a homesick Texan’s slightly elevated idea of what an old-fashioned border-country honky-tonk should be.
The same goes for the simple, stripped-down, bar-style menu, which features a mix of old and new, including three kinds of homestyle tacos (chicken, beef, bean), elaborate $15 big-city cocktails (“for two” versions come in clear-plastic, nutcracker-style bottles), and a strange, curiously un-goopy vegan version of queso dip (it’s made with cashews, among other unexpected things), which this non-Texan is fairly sure has never been seen in any of the traditional Tex-Mex establishments around San Antonio.
The faintly sweet, cashew-heavy queso drew rave reviews from the assembled non-vegan Yankees at our windblown little outdoor table, which was set with a jar of yellow flowers under a slightly tattered white tent on the shoulder of Third Avenue. It was topped with rings of pickled jalapeño and a dusting of black pepper and served with very good housemade corn tortilla chips, alongside our tubes of tinfoil-wrapped tacos stacked on a plastic orange tray.
“These monsters should warm us up,” one of the shivering Yankees said, as we unfurled the first toasty batch of chicken tacos, which Chef Rizo constructs with handmade flour tortillas rolled around generous spoonfuls of shredded chicken mingled with salsa verde. The beef in the beef tacos was cut in chunks, instead of the usual ground chuck, and simmered in a rich dried-chile gravy, and the pintos in the traditional San Antonio-style refried-bean-and-cheese tacos were from Rancho Gordo, for all of you heirloom-bean lovers who obsess about such things these days.
The dish that had us crying for more at Yellow Rose, however, was the spicy, richly flavored beef chili, which Chef Rizo has been refining and tinkering with for years. It contained tender beef chunks in its depths and tasted of cumin, cilantro, and the faintest whiff of campfire coffee, and once we’d settled our bill, I took an extra helping, as a little taste of southern Texas, back to my own family, in a bag filled in the traditional way with plastic spoons, a stack of napkins, and several packets of saltines.
*This article appears in the November 23, 2020, issue of New York Magazine. Subscribe Now!

These are trying times for stout, beefeating non-vegans like me. Expressions like “plant-based” have been on the lips of breathlessly trendy restaurant folk for years, of course. Lately, however, and especially in the strange new COVID era, the advances in this ever-expanding genre — a refuge, in ancient beefeating lore, for sprout-munching, lactose-intolerant commune dwellers and assorted other kooks — have been downright alarming. Novel techniques (for faux milk, faux cheeses, faux meat of every variety) are being developed with the kind of avid ingenuity usually reserved for rocket programs. Talented young cooks are stampeding into the space, grand old masters are struggling to keep up, and, as my Underground Gourmet colleagues have reported, first-class vegan restaurants are beginning to pop up around town the way upscale burger joints used to do not so long ago.
Among the many plant-based hot spots I keep hearing about is Cadence, a “soul and southern foodways”–themed establishment that opened a while ago among the crowded storefronts along 7th Street in the East Village. It’s one of the latest members of Overthrow Hospitality, a rapidly expanding self-described “Vegan Hospitality Group” (eight downtown venues and counting) run by a culinary entrepreneur named Ravi DeRossi, who is a vegan convert and animal-rights activist. The chef in the kitchen is Shenarri Freeman, a classically trained cook from Richmond, Virginia, whose specialties include vegan interpretations of down-home classics like cornbread, smoked grits, and great helpings of potato salad that look like something you’d encounter at a bountiful church picnic in the southern countryside.
Like those of other prominent New York restaurateurs in their early years (Danny Meyer and David Chang among them), DeRossi’s little nest of restaurants occupy their own special terroir — in this case a multi-block section of the East Village — and they tend to exude the same practical, casually ornate, homespun look, as if you were dropping in to a semi-private dining club or neighborhood bar. There are no tables in the narrow, railroad dining space at Cadence — just a long countertop, lined with 12 comfortable barstools covered in crushed orange velvet, where you nurse your predinner glasses of blueberry-lavender lemonade or hard apple cider. There’s a dining lean-to outside in the great COVID-era tradition, and in clement weather, a few tables are set up here and there on the sidewalk, each topped with what looked to me like the chef’s own dinner plates and a single brightly colored plastic flower.
The first thing our group of skeptical non-vegans tasted was the potato salad, which turns out to be a Freeman-family recipe and is served in a large wheel-shaped portion in the center of the plate. The chef uses red potatoes boiled with the skins on (cooked with a pinch of salt, according to family tradition, and mixed with the usual chopped celery, red onions, etc., and an updated hint of dill and Dijon), and despite the presence of an egg-free mayonnaise called Vegenaise, I had to suppress the urge, as I devoured one tangy, smooth spoonful after another, to call out loudly for a cheeseburger or a side of fried chicken. There was an excellent wedge salad on the table too, though the dish we couldn’t stop nattering about was a bowl of soupy, deeply flavorful smoked grits, which the chef garnishes with corn-and-tomato salsa, chunks of mushroom, and a pile of frizzled shallots.
“I don’t remember vegan cooking like this when I was in culinary school,” a chef friend said as we wondered at these shallots, along with a skillet of maple cornbread that our bubbly and loquacious server informed me later on was drizzled with a substance called “bee-free honey” made with apples (“They do bad things to those bees!”). Freeman’s fried lasagna has gotten a lot of press, and rightly so, though it disappeared from the table so quickly that we had to call for a second order to examine the Bolognese that is made with a combination of Beyond Meat’s beef and Italian sausage and a hefty dose of Cabernet. Ditto (on another visit) the uncanny version of a fried-chicken sandwich, which the kitchen makes with chunks of crisped oyster mushrooms rolled in a Buffalo-style spicy sauce, all squeezed with slices of avocado and a mysteriously tasty faux-buttermilk dressing between a warm, crunchy-topped pretzel bun.
If there’s one complaint about Cadence, it’s that the menu’s too small, although that’s probably to be expected given that we’re dealing with vegan interpretations of a cuisine famous for its time-honored recipes for roasted, simmered, and deep-fried animal proteins. I don’t think I’ll be ordering the savory, overthick, borderline gummy “black-eyed-pea garlic pancake” on future visits, but a crab-cake doppelgänger called “palm cake” (made with hearts of palm and chickpeas) is a thing of beauty, and so were the various pies and cobblers we sampled for dessert. The berry-rich house cobbler is another bountiful Sunday-church-picnic special (yes, Freeman’s aunt was a practiced church-picnic cook), though the dish I’m still thinking about weeks later is the apple pie, which is set in a thick shortening crust and tastes of nutmeg and cinnamon and a strange, almost magical hint of maple sugar.
Open: Dinner Wednesday to Friday; from 2 p.m. Saturday and Sunday.
Prices: $10 to $24.
Recommended dishes: Potato salad, smoked grits, Buffalo-mushroom sandwich, berry cobbler, apple pie.
Note: No spirits yet (or possibly ever), but the modest wine list features several nice whites from South Africa.

Like many restaurant fanatics of a certain age, I used to like to grab a pack or two of matches on my way out the door of the places I reviewed or dined at semi-regularly. Since we have a working fireplace at home, there was some practical value to this old habit, which likely goes back to the vanished era of the Stork Club and the Rainbow Room, when gentlemen drank their martinis straight up at lunchtime and the most sophisticated couples burned through a pack of cigarettes a day. Lots of places have discontinued the practice in recent years, preferring to dispense carefully carved toothpicks, or mini-notepads, or party bags filled with boxes of organic chocolate or granola. In our household, these tend to get lost, or thrown away, or eaten, but the old fine-dining matchbooks still survive, stowed furtively in bathrooms or tossed in a ceramic bowl above the fireplace.
Lately, this little collection has taken on a kind of nostalgic, even anthropological quality, of course. Fishing around in the bottom of the bowl the other day, I found a couple of matchboxes from old deceased regulars like Gotham Bar & Grill and others from hotels I stayed at long ago in another life on trips to far-off places like Tokyo and the Kingdom of Bhutan. In the middle of the pile were ones from a jumble of places I’d forgotten or hadn’t thought about in a while (Peasant, the Dutch, legions of half-remembered Japanese omakase rooms), and at the top of the bowl, ones from the most recent establishments I’d visited, including a couple of crimson-colored matchboxes from an excellent, formerly boisterous Lower East Side Basque-style bar and restaurant called Ernesto’s, which happens to be the last dining room I patronized as a working critic, in mid-March, before the lights went out in restaurants all over town.
The lights are back on at Ernesto’s now, for indoor dining and also outside, so I decided to pay a call the other day to see how the chef, a talented young Frenchette veteran named Ryan Bartlow, and his team were getting on. As you can imagine, the airy dining room, which occupies a corner space on the easternmost fringes of East Broadway, is much less boisterous than before. I counted only four tables inside, and to sit down at one of them, your temperature must be checked. Contact-tracing information is also required, and masks must be worn all meal long — except when shoveling delicate spoonfuls of the deliciously simmered Madrid-style “callos de Joan” tripe stew into your mouth. Things are slightly more relaxed on the curb outside, where, on the evening I dropped in, members of the masked waitstaff were bustling among the rows of carefully spaced café-style tables that stretched down the sidewalk in two long lines.
Bartlow spent some formative cooking years living above an old tavern in the Basque country around San Sebastián, and I was happy to see that many of the classic tapas-style small-plate dishes I remembered from the winter were still on the slightly abbreviated, single-page menu. These included piles of house-frizzled potato chips, which are draped with dense candied slivers of Ibérico ham, as well as the aforementioned tripe, which the kitchen simmers for many hours with bits of pork trotter, chorizo, and clouds of smoked paprika and serves, for a few extra bucks, with a stack of grilled country bread on the side. There’s also a refined version of blood sausage, if you enjoy that kind of thing; great tangles of frisée salad plated over little crowns of roasted mushrooms; and fried croquettes filled with the kind of creamed chicken my family never managed to cook up in the quarantine kitchen back home.
“This is really rich cooking,” one of my daughters said as we pondered the “Platos Principales” portion of our meal, much of which seemed to be the kind of thing you’d want to be eating outdoors in the mountains around San Sebastián, with a hint of wood smoke in the air and winter setting in. In fairness, the food at Ernesto’s is also classic, heavily flavored big-city restaurant cooking, which takes some getting used to after a steady diet of sourdough and pots of home-cooked beans. Ernesto’s name is a nod to that grandfather of he-man cooking, Ernest Hemingway, who probably would have enjoyed our portion of baby elbow macaroni, which Bartlow tops with chanterelle mushrooms and tosses, cacio e pepe style, with plenty of black pepper, and the bountiful pork collar, which is cut in tender ruby-colored slices and garnished with a small mountain of patatas fritas and pork drippings sweetened with sherry.
Most of the tables are filled on this balmy alfresco evening, and during dinner the streetlights pop on, illuminating the sidewalk and the park across the way in a soft glow. Three tents stored in the basement are set up when it’s rainy or cold, our server says, and will be heated when winter comes. Until then, there are plenty of sherry-tinged cocktails on the drinks list to warm the soul (try the gold-tinted “5 Finger” martini) along with a series of elegant, rib-sticking desserts, like whole pears poached in wine served with milky scoops of sorbet and toasted almonds and a generous wheel of classic, rusty-top crème caramel that judders pleasantly when you tweak it with your spoon. And I’m happy to report that there are still matchbooks set in a bowl by the entrance of the new COVID-era Ernesto’s 2.0, a couple of which I pocketed on my way out the door, to add to the old collection back home.
Open: Dinner Tuesday to Sunday.
Prices: Appetizers, $10 to $22; entrées, $23 to $36.
Ideal Meal: Chips with Ibérico ham, tortilla española (or tripe for the tripe loons), pork collar with patatas fritas (or grilled hake for lighter eaters), crème caramel.
Note: The house adds a 20 percent gratuity to “help our staff during COVID-19,” and to promote turnover, patrons are encouraged to keep their dinners to 90 minutes.
*This article appears in the October 26, 2020, issue of New York Magazine. Subscribe Now!

“It’s like last year never happened,” somebody said after we had been sitting for a minute or two in the refreshingly loud, refreshingly crowded dining room at the new Williamsburg destination Francie. There were no masks in sight, except on the staff, and servers were dressed in the kind of familiar bistro uniforms (aprons, pressed white shirts, etc.) that made them look as if they’d been recruited by Danny Meyer himself. With its tastefully muted color tones and haute brasserie style (horseshoe banquettes along both walls, a bustling open kitchen in the back), the room had a nostalgic, pre-pandemic look to it, as did the menu, which included all sorts of dimly recalled delicacies, like soufflé cakes topped with caviar, rounds of ravioli stuffed with lobster, and an elaborate “crown of duck” for two, which, on the evening I ordered it, was brought to the table before carving, nestled in a garland of flowers.
The proprietors of Francie, John Winterman (formerly of Bâtard) and chef Chris Cipollone (Piora), are fine-dining traditionalists of the old school, although, like anyone who has had to navigate the long pandemic winter (the restaurant officially opened in December but closed shortly after), they have made many adjustments along the way. They sold cocktails out the front door of the former bank building that the restaurant occupies and concocted a to-go menu for a while (duck sausages, a Sicilian fried chicken dusted with fennel pollen). Unlike Peter Luger up the street, Francie was prevented by city regulations from building a network of alfresco dinner huts, so the feeling you get in the crowded indoor space — or at least the feeling I got — is at once strange and comfortingly familiar, like going to the movies or attending a Broadway premiere for the first time in a long while.
On the evenings I dropped in, the festive crowd included local couples out for dinner in their understated Brooklyn finery and even a culinary tourist or two, possibly attracted by the restaurant’s recent Michelin-star seal of approval, who posed brightly at their tables while servers snapped their pictures. They sipped pink ’80s-era Cosmos from a very good retro drinks list and picked at garden crudités arranged in little crystal bowls and collections of oysters and prawns served in the formal, slightly old-fashioned way: on plates strewn with chilled beach pebbles and strands of seaweed. The petits fours we liked best were the ribbons of housemade duck mortadella balanced over thin slices of toasted brioche, although an elaborate bombolone flavored with parsnips had its charms too, and so did the fluffy, faintly lemony soufflé cakes that were dressed with plenty of seaweed butter in addition to the caviar.
Cipollone has an eye for these kinds of subtly lavish (and subtly dated) ingredients, which he folds into relatively simple dishes to give them a little extra kick. My market salad was garnished with crumblings of dehydrated black olives, and an order of crunchy, late-spring asparagus was set in a pool of hollandaise and dusted with bottarga. Instead of artichoke, the very good barigoule here is simmered with mushrooms (porcini, morels) and crispy nuggets of deboned chicken wings and topped with a single egg yolk. In addition to the lobster ravioli, the sneakily opulent pastas include fat, hat-shaped tortelli, stuffed with suckling pig and sprinkled with pork cracklings, and tubes of rigatoni that the pasta-makers in the kitchen tinge a summery green with an infusion of green garlic and toss with a sausage ragù seasoned with fennel pollen.
The richness of this type of stylized, haute comfort cooking may take some getting used to after months of subsisting on canned pantry recipes and carryout food, but if you pace yourself and pool your cash resources, several of the dishes at Francie are worth the price of admission. There’s an artfully constructed vegetable pithivier encased in a buttery pastry shell and a perfectly seared Heritage-pork chop that is enlivened with a delicious sweet-and-sour combination of tangy cherry peppers and molasses flavored with balsamic vinegar. Good beef is expensive these days, which may be why the côte de boeuf ($175 with a pot of hollandaise and steak fries on the side) didn’t seem worth its extravagant price, so if you’re in the mood for a true feast, call for the aforementioned flower-strewn duck ($98), which is dry-aged for weeks to a perfumed tenderness and basted with honey for a sweet, Peking-duck crunch.
As at many places around town, there’s a sense of celebration in the air at Francie, and why the hell not? I enjoyed a modest glass of Spanish red wine with the excellent duck, but there are a variety of familiar big-money bottles to choose from on the reserve list (the ’09 Harlan Estate Cab for $1,900 being the biggest), along with many carefully curated Champagnes. There are multiple tequilas and amaros to blow your cash on too, and even a fine cheese selection, which is trundled among the tables by Winterman himself on what he insists is “the last cheese cart left standing” in New York. If you have the room, or the energy, the desserts include a rum baba (with pineapple and plenty of crème fraîche), a carefully articulated pastry version of New York cheesecake, and a very large sundae for two, which the slightly exhausted band of revelers at my table couldn’t make much of a dent in no matter how hard we tried.
Open: Dinner Tuesday to Saturday.
Prices: Appetizers, $8 to $32; entrées, $19 to $175.
Ideal Meal: Duck mortadella, mushroom-and-chicken-wing barigoule, Heritage-pork chop or crown of duck for two, rum baba.
Note: There are discussions of installing a roof deck, so outdoor dining may actually happen one day.

The irony of two cooks who met while working at the unabashedly carnivorous Cannibal going on to open a vegan Chinese restaurant isn’t lost on Justin Lee. Late last month, he and Jared Moeller launched the shoebox-size Fat Choy on the Lower East Side with nary an animal product on the eight-item, $10-and-under menu. Neither is vegan, and they consider their meatlessness more of an environmental and economical statement than a dietary one. “For us, this restaurant is about a future for everyone,” says Lee, a Virginia native with deep family roots in Manhattan’s Chinatown and a veteran of kitchens like Barbuto, Locanda Verde, and Montmartre under his mentor Tien Ho. “We see way too much factory farming of animals and its side effects.”
Rather than compromise with commodity meat, Lee keeps prices low with a plant-based menu. But Fat Choy stands out from the traditional vegan-Chinese pack by focusing not on wheat-gluten mock meats but on seasonal vegetables, most sourced from small Chinatown purveyors. Lee’s cooking style is witty and ecumenical, and, according to the brand’s tagline, “kind of Chinese.” He sluices smashed cucumbers in a broken-vinaigrette “leopard” sauce and tosses crunchy romaine and “Asian fines herbes” in “Chinese Ranch” dressing. He mingles jasmine rice, beans, and greens with vibrant cilantro and ginger. He stuffs dumplings with kitchen scraps like cores, stems, and stock remnants to avoid food waste. And for his Mushroom Sloppy sandwich, he simmers flower shiitakes with smoked tofu, then tucks the mixture into a house-baked sesame roll.
The result is impressive, and it passed what might have been the ultimate Underground Gourmet vegan-food litmus test: On the way home from the restaurant the other day, we walked by Katz’s, peered wistfully at the old hot-dog griddle through the window, and for a moment considered, then rejected, the idea of popping in for a postprandial pastrami on rye. In other words, we didn’t miss the meat. Which sums up Fat Choy’s mission. “Everyone’s like, ‘Oh, I should bring my vegan friends here,’ ” says Lee. “No, what you should do is bring your carnivore friends here. We are vegan food for everyone.”
250 Broome St., nr. Ludlow St.; 347-778-5889. Currently open for takeout and limited outdoor dining; closed Monday.

The days of ‘Look at me, I’m at Noma!’, ‘Look at me, I’m at Eleven Madison Park!’ are over, they’re dunzo,” declared my friend, the Weary Gastronome, as we sat at Daniel Boulud’s new midtown venture, Le Pavillon, and watched the world go by. The great COVID-19 plague and its seemingly endless aftershocks had put an end to those self-indulgent glory days when food plutocrats leisurely toured the globe, ticking off top-50 destinations in their gold-rimmed notebooks. Snooty critics were abandoning their ridiculous “gourmet” star systems. Well-turned veggie menus and bowls of ramen were the coin of the realm these days, not Parisian soufflés or slabs of $200 côte de boeuf. “Are we ready for all this?” he said, waving his hands at the neat rows of linen-covered tables and Boulud’s wait staff rushing to and fro in their pressed jackets. “Not me. I’d rather be sitting at home eating pizza in my loose-fitting pants!”
Judging by the busy early-evening crowd piling into the tall, slightly awkward space at the bottom of a gleamingly new, possibly obsolete office tower next to Grand Central, not everyone agrees. And to be fair, big-money midtown chefs like Boulud have more on their minds these days than turning their multimillion-dollar investments into global dining destinations. In this perilous, star-crossed time, the simple act of survival will do just fine, and for tonight, at least, the room is filled with a familiar assortment of Boulud regulars. There are uptown dandies propped at the bar with silk cravats sprouting from their jacket pockets and dignified elderly couples discreetly sipping their pricey glasses of Sancerre. There are a few tourists seated at the tables, along with groups of serious-faced gentlemen in suits who may or may not have recently arrived from an extended plenary session at the U.N.
Le Pavillon features an elegant bar that seems to echo Philip Johnson’s famous square-shaped design at the old Four Seasons, but because of the strangely narrow dimensions of the room, somehow feels twice as small. There’s an impressive view from the bar of the ornate Grand Central façade and the silvery spire of the Chrysler Building towering just beyond it. The vaulted, cathedral height of the space is impressive, too, although a low-slung false ceiling is set over the rows of tables that are clustered toward the south side of the room. Given the echoey properties of the space, this is probably for acoustic reasons (and possibly the advanced age of many Boulud regulars), although on a crowded evening, with uniform gold mushroom-shaped lamps planted at all the tables and a profusion of lobby-style flora scattered here and there, it can feel a little like you’re crouched together in a random hotel restaurant or the first-class dining room of a newly built airport lounge.
You’re not going to find the kind of precise, carefully marshaled (and at $125 per three-course prix fixe, not inexpensive) brand of cooking that Chef Boulud is famous for in most airport lounges, however, and the menu at Le Pavillon contains some elevated pleasures, especially early on. We tasted the signature oysters Vanderbilt served on the half-shell, dressed with spoonfuls of creamy chowder (“These taste of culinary school, but not in a bad way,” muttered one of the cooks at the table), and a delicate onion tart decorated with tiny dandelions and bits of thyme. There were a few tasty if familiar crudos (if it’s back on the menu, get the lime-cured striped bass instead of the usual tuna offerings), and the kind of opulent French veloutés that you don’t see much anymore at the bar-restaurants downtown — one made with late-summer corn, the other with mussels and a rich mix of potatoes and watercress and dressed with dollops of caviar.
I would have expected a little more overtly classic French cooking for a restaurant named after the famous World’s Fair pavilion that launched the haute-gourmet craze on an unsuspecting American public way back in the day, but like many chefs of his stature in these uncertain times, Boulud has decided to throw his hat into the crowded vegetable-forward ring. Many of these creations (mushy grilled avocado with einkorn berries; beets bombed with a few too many sesame seeds, mustard seeds, and carefully tweezed flower blossoms, among other things) seem a little busy and overproduced at this stage. So I recommend taking refuge in the seafood portion of the menu, which includes fat scallops crusted in buckwheat, generous cuts of grilled swordfish, and soft, ivory-colored blocks of halibut that the kitchen layers with thinly sliced shiitakes and pours with an aromatic mushroom-and-barley consommé.
Like everyone else’s, Boulud’s restaurants have had their ups and downs during the great COVID crisis (several are only just reopening around town), and when the chef emerges from the kitchen dressed in his mask and spotless whites, he looks a little like a harried, well-mannered doctor passing through the room, on his way to triage another patient. “Business is not all the way back, but we are hopeful,” he says. “Every week, we are one foot on the accelerator and one foot on the brake.” In the meantime, we should remember to try that most French of the haute culinary disciplines — the desserts. Soon they arrive at our table like postcards from a brighter, happier time: lemon tarts with hidden layers of strawberry, velvet hazelnut-and-chocolate crémeux, a soothing peach soup with mini rose-shaped sculptures of meringue floating on top. The Weary Gastronome took one bite, and then another. “These are really very nice,” he said.
Open: Dinner Tuesday to Saturday; lunch Tuesday to Friday.
Prices: Three-course prix fixe dinner menu $125 per person; six-course menus $155 (vegetables tasting) and $195 (seafood tasting).
Recommended dishes: Bang Island mussel soup, halibut with shiitakes, Meyer-lemon tart with strawberries.
Note: If you find yourself loitering at the bar, the “Bites” menu now features Daniel’s $25 interpretation of the great American lobster roll.

As COVID takes its time ebbing away from the life of the city, all sorts of welcome signs of recovery are springing up around town. Broadway is open again, of course, and the last time I wandered down Restaurant Row on 46th Street, herds of goggle-eyed tourists were jostling for space along the sidewalks just like in the old days. The lean-to sheds up and down the avenues are made of sturdier materials for the coming cold weather, and many are set with proper four-tops and strings of decorative lights. A few vanished establishments are even coming back to life (hello, Gotham), and here and there the kind of theatrical, big-money, high-concept restaurants that used to open weekly, like Broadway plays, during the boom years seem to be slowly returning to the landscape.
The long-awaited New York outlet of the U.K. steakhouse franchise Hawksmoor is one of these places, and though your humble critic is as skeptical of the ridiculous phrase U.K. steakhouse as any red-blooded New Yorker, I couldn’t help feeling a little lift in the heart as I took my seat in the large room and waited for the performance to begin. The large space at the bottom of Park Avenue South has been appointed with all the familiar props of the beefeating experience: wood-paneled walls, tastefully reinforced chairs, chalkboards scrawled with daily cuts of beef, which are sold here by the ounce. The wait staff aren’t dressed in the standard steakhouse costume (waist apron, buttoned-up shirt, etc.), but on the evenings I dropped in, the tables were filled with the usual suspects: a few Englishmen who knew the brand along with portly expense-account folk eyeing their usual porterhouse order and admiring their recently decanted bottles of marked-up red wine.
Luckily, a fat cat was among our party, so soon our decanter would arrive too, preceded by excellent martinis and a strangely alluring, tartly sweet creation called a Sour Cherry Negroni. There were fresh oysters from Island Creek up in the old colony of Massachusetts, set with a wedge of lemon on the customary bed of crushed ice. There was an elaborate crudo dish that you wouldn’t see on the menu at Peter Luger or Smith & Wollensky in a hundred years (steelhead flavored with ginger and chile oil, for the record) and an artful steak tartare topped with a vivid orange egg yolk that worked even better once I removed the pickled shiitakes from the mix. Something called an “ash-baked beet” salad wasn’t half-bad either, to my quiet surprise, and the grilled scallops (sweet, garlic crusted, finished with a few drops of white port) were even better and brought to the table by the genial, non-Luger waitstaff with proper ceremony, sizzling in their great fan-size shells.
At this stage, the meat’s a bit of a mixed bag, as one would expect. The promising-sounding “Old Spot” pork belly was dank as opposed to crackly and tasted only faintly like real farm-raised pork. My portion of Elysian Fields lamb T-bones looked (and tasted) as if it had been microwaved in some grim hotel kitchen instead of sizzled on the grill of a great London chophouse. I was sad not to see more of the great U.K. classics (Sunday roast, a mixed grill, proper lamb chops with pots of mint sauce), but the grass-fed steak is charcoal grilled, which is definitely not the case at Keens or Sparks. If you happen to have a taste for English rump roast, you can get that here, along with presentable, though absurdly pricey (did we mention it charges by the ounce?), versions of old New York favorites like (in order of preference) rib eye, New York strip, and the porterhouse, which is often gone by 8 p.m. and costs a hefty $4.50 per ounce.
Do we have any more quibbles? Even this New Yorker thought the “Yorkshires” were too crispy and could have been pillowier inside. The sides could have been bigger and better, especially for the New York crowd (the fries are a disaster, and the great “mash and gravy” comes in what appears to be a cast-iron butter cup). There could be a few more sauce options, and they should be served in gravy boats instead of little metal cream holders that look as if they were designed for a polite high tea. The London menu is filled with bountiful seafood options, and we hope in time they’ll migrate here too, though the halibut was one of the best seafood dishes I’ve had since the beginning of the end of the COVID era; so was the lobster, which was grilled, like the scallops, to a perfect tender sweetness and doused with garlic butter.
In other words, like the best steak joints around this steak-obsessed town (Porter House, Cote, the Grill), Hawksmoor New York is a proper restaurant with trained chefs in the kitchen and wait staff who treat customers with respect. Pay five dollars for the “sourdough and cultured butter” and you get fat, warm slices of bread with a golden pat of butter in the middle instead of the typical three-day-old bread basket. Order a dessert by the very talented pastry chef, Carla Henriques, and you won’t get random week-old pies or clouds of stale schlag. You’ll get a chocolaty peanut-butter Louis inspired by the famous dish at Le Louis XV in Monte Carlo, a lovely meringue bombe stuffed with lemon-ripple ice cream, and, of course, wheels of sticky toffee pudding in pools of caramel with a melting scoop of “milk ice cream” on top — a dish so warm and comforting and un-steakhouse-like that on another visit I had to be restrained from ordering it twice.
Open: Dinner Tuesday to Saturday.
Prices: Appetizers, $12 to $30; entreés, $22 to $65; some cuts of steak are priced by the ounce.
Recommended dishes: Oysters, scallops, halibut, “mash and gravy,” sticky toffee pudding, Meyer-lemon-meringue bombe.
Note: If you want a burger, you can get it at the bar.

The room is decorated in high-gilt style: The banquettes are blue velvet, and two Art Nouveau peacocks etched in glass preside over the bar. Tables can be booked on the wraparound mezzanine for those who require more privacy than the canopy of trees down the center of the dining room can provide.
For Carmellini, the restaurant represents a return to form. His early days as a chef in New York were spent at Lespinasse and Café Boulud, which he opened for Daniel Boulud in the ’90s. In the intervening years, with his partners Luke Ostrom and Josh Pickard, he developed a portfolio nearly as capacious as his mentor’s but with a more democratic bent. His Manhattan spots — Locanda Verde, the Dutch, Lafayette, Bar Primi, and Carne Mare — are stalwarts (average age: ten years old) and reliably good for a plate of pasta or a nicely cooked strip steak. With Café Carmellini, the group is placing a bet that fine dining is ready for a resurgence.
If the “Café” in the name strains credulity, “Carmellini” does not. The menu divides its attentions, as the chef long has, between French and Italian styles, and waiters are only too happy to provide peeks into the family story that explain the offerings. The salty, musky strips of lard that drape the shrimp Colonnata are aged in Italian marble, the ancestral Carmellinis’ old-country trade; grapefruit sorbetto for dessert comes with a bottle of dry vermouth, which Carmellini’s grandmother used to splash on her breakfast grapefruit. (Nonna Carmellini sounds fun.) But Locandavores looking for red sauce will be disappointed: There are only three pastas on the menu (if you count a rotating risotto — squash the night I ordered it), and not one of them centers a tomato. An off-menu slab of lasagna was the color of snow even before a white-gloved waiter got to work shaving a white truffle the size of a softball. These are pastas Frenchified, from foie gras–foamed duck-duck-duck tortellini (filling, foie, sauce) to my favorite, cannelloni filled with lobster-scallop-and-shrimp mousse, topped with knuckles of lobster meat and a generous oblong of Golden osetra.
You could get used to eating like this, assuming you have the wherewithal for $75 pasta courses. Carmellini is showing off more than you might expect for a man whose other projects include franchising himself with Vornado (on a new Bar Primi), and the results can be wonderful. There are nods to the current trends — for photogenicity, you couldn’t do better than the red-snapper meunière, a vellum-thin sheet of fish dotted with radishes and flowers — but for pure pleasure, the less traveled the path the better. Rabbit cacciatore (roasted loin, braised leg, liver-mousse-filled raviolini) is a world away from the supper-club standard the name conjures. Halibut is served “Billi Bi” style, poached in saffron-mussel sauce, an homage to a cream-of-mussel soup originally served at Maxim’s in Paris that was popularized in America in the ’60s by Craig Claiborne.
By the time the dessert menu arrives, let alone the cart of vintage amari, you may be overwhelmed by the muchness of it all. Grandma Carmellini’s sorbetto, millennial pink and zippily herbal from the vermouth, is a good counterweight. But where tycoon rules apply, leaning in is the better move. The sticky toffee pudding has been sauced with dark rum. Most places, that would be enough. Here, one of your many servers will come by with a pan of more rum and a match to spoon blue flames over the whole, a gift from above.

Some of the reasons for this longevity are obvious, others less so. A steady column that includes lots of free food is a good gig for any working writer, provided you have the constitution for it, and when you work as a prominent restaurant critic in a great dining town like New York, there are many other sorts of perks and privileges that are easy to get used to. You are quietly, and sometimes not so quietly, fawned over. You get to gather your friends and boss them around and treat them to a little party of your own choosing pretty much any day of the week. Most important, and perhaps most intoxicating of all, is the sense of having an all-expenses-paid front-row seat to the life of a great city as the culture moves and changes around you.
During my time on the job, the restaurant and dining world, which once occupied its own eccentric corner of the culture conversation, moved to the very center of things, then simply became part of the mainstream. Thanks to the chaotic wonders of the digital age, diners are more confident and informed than ever, and thanks to writers like Gold and Anthony Bourdain, they don’t see restaurants as stilted, ritual forms of entertainment the way their grandparents did but as windows into cultures from around the globe. Instead of prattling on about the glories of Continental cooking, diners can wax on about vegan or Oaxacan or Jamaican cuisines and will spend hours expounding, over a glass of orange wine, on where to find the finest birria taco in Queens.
The COVID crisis sped up these changes and shot them forward a decade or two, and it did the same for the role of the all-knowing, Anton Ego–style restaurant critic, which has long been marked as something of an endangered species and now, finally, seems poised for extinction. Once upon a time, we ambled from one establishment to another, scribbling notes under the table, dictating dining tastes and trends to a much smaller, more accepting public. These days, the most effective critics are part carnival barker, madly yelling into the TikTok-addled maelstrom of public opinion; part social anthropologist; and part reporter, covering an industry that’s more central to the economic and spiritual well-being of the city than ever before.
Have I done a good job covering these dizzying changes over the years? Probably not, but I’ve done my best. Twenty-two years is a long time to do any one thing, let alone stuff rich and unhealthy foods down your craw on a daily basis, and I’ve felt for a while now that for the benefit of everyone involved — my doctors, my children, my long-suffering editors, and, most of all, my readers — it’s time for a change in tone and perspective. I’ll be staying on at Grub Street and New York as a writer and resident crank, and I will wait along with everyone else to see who is next chosen to challenge orthodoxies and complain bitterly about the quality of the gumbo soup, or the xiao long bao, or the overly pricey vegan tasting menu in their own particular way.
Years ago, when I took this job, Gael invited me to lunch at a now-vanished French restaurant to talk about the routine of reviewing: Yes, this was a real job, she explained. Yes, you should refrain from gobbling everything in sight, and no, you won’t get tired of it, she said, taking a notepad from her handbag and scrawling some scathing observation about our truffled noodles: “I think you’ll find as the days go by that your appetite only increases.”
When I sit down for my own exit interview with the new critic, I’ll probably say the same thing with a few of my own observations thrown in: Disguises are a thing of the past. Resy has made it more or less impossible to book a table with a pseudonym, so ask your companions to make the reservations in their names instead. Try not to draw attention to yourself, and remember that restaurants are always better during their two- or three-month opening window, before the prices rise, chefs shift their attention to other projects, and everything goes to hell. The 5:30 p.m. dining slot is the critic’s friend because it’s the easiest to get, but try to go later because the real spirit of any restaurant arrives only after the night wears on a bit. A table for four is ideal, and limit everyone to a single expense-account drink — otherwise it will just turn into a party.
Even back at home, you’re never really off the clock. You may bolt upright in the middle of the night, trying to figure out if that shooting pain in your chest is owed to the ’roni cups you ingested at the hot new pizza place a few hours earlier or the creeping beginnings of a massive coronary event.
You’ll quickly grow weary of uni and caviar as well as the adjectives you might use (crunchy, silken, funky) to describe the same mind-numbing progression of dishes again and again. The wine lists are always too expensive, the dining rooms are always too loud, and the sushi bros at the next stool over are always yammering about their $30,000 watches.
You may also begin to feel a sneaking sense that you are contributing in some way to a greater gathering calamity, whether that’s by catering to the tastes of the one percent in a city where more than 1 million people are food insecure; gulping down a piece of forbidden, quickly vanishing tuna belly; or paying $25 for a cheeseburger derived from one of a billion or so belching steers that, through no fault of their own, are helping to slowly fry this planet to a crisp.
You’ll never be a regular, and you will miss that feeling because it will be all too rare that you can settle into a comfortable table for a simple bowl of soup, an evening martini on the rocks, or even that most sinful of all afternoon pleasures, a BLT with a large wad of sweet, creamy coleslaw on the side.
But you’ll always have an excuse to check on the quality of the Dover sole at La Grenouille, or the wonton soup at Great N.Y. Noodletown down on the corner of Bayard and Bowery, the way your colleague Jerry Saltz checks up on the old-master paintings at the Met. Most of all, I hope you’ll get the same experience I did in this great international dining city: seeing the whole world under your nose while you sit happily in one place, with a napkin tucked firmly under your collar, before paying for dinner with someone else’s money and waddling home for the night to sleep in your very own bed.
Le Bernardin
“It’s midtown’s great neighborhood restaurant, but it’s also a great Manhattan destination. And it’s the kind of restaurant that represents both the city and the world at large in a way that almost feels nostalgic today. When a restaurant like Le Bernardin leaves the scene, there won’t be another like it in the city.”
Sammy’s Noodles
“There was a carryout restaurant that occupied a double-wide space on Sixth Avenue. The minute COVID came, it was gone. It was a master of the carryout art, which involves perfect timing so the crust on the General Tso’s chicken remains hard as a rock and the fresh broccoli is cooked by the time you arrive back home.”
Momofuku Ko
“The original location, when it was a tiny counter, had a famously horrible online-reservation system. I don’t even remember how I got in, but it hadn’t been open very long, and I went only once before I wrote the review. That seemed to upset people who, back in the day, had certain notions about how critics should time their write-ups.”
“Foie gras soup dumplings at Annisa, Anita Lo’s now-closed restaurant in the West Village. It was my first review, and the minute I tasted those popping, luxuriant dumplings, I said to myself, Platty, you’re in a different world now.”
“Squid risotto from a mercifully defunct Japanese restaurant on University Place. ‘Squid risotto’ doesn’t sound that bizarre, but this interpretation consisted of a sludgy mass of rice with chopped-up squid in it, served inside the body of a giant squid. The kitchen caught on fire the night I was there, and everybody left. The restaurant didn’t stay open much longer.”
Craftbar
“That was a great little room and one of the first high-chef establishments to combine style and home-cooked simplicity with elevated technique. It was not crazy to get into, and there was a lot of talent inside that kitchen. It had these spindly breadsticks at the bar and meatballs that I still think about. I reviewed it, but onlywith a paragraph or two — I didn’t know it would become the seminal restaurant of its time. It essentially created the model for casual elegance that defined the next decade of restaurants.”
Masa
“I think my initial review was filled with endless adjectives of praise, but it turned out this style of restaurant opened the door to all sorts of regrettable trends, like sushi-bro culture and the denuding of the oceans, to name a few. I’ve since gone back to Masa as a private citizen with well-to-do friends, and you just feel like you’re being mercilessly ripped off.”
Carbone
“They put me in the back room and it was a madhouse, so I described the scene. Was it a little harsh? Probably. I’ve recommended lunches at the front of the restaurant, which is a much more peaceful experience.”
Marea
“I was nice. I just wasn’t that nice. Upon reconsideration, however, those pastas were fucking good.”
“You want someone who is a bit pliable as well as knowledgeable. They probably don’t have kids because you need to be able to meet up with very little notice.”
“Anyone who won’t listen to what you say. You need them to order certain dishes, and you don’t want them to respond, ‘I don’t like that, and I don’t like that.’ It used to be vegans, but that’s changed over time, and these days vegans are quite useful. The absolute worst are people who treat the meal as a party instead of the professional event that it is. I remember a young French gentleman in from Paris; he was somebody’s friend. He just drank all the way through dinner. He didn’t become unruly, but he did throw up on my shoes once we got back outside.”
“I seem to find myself next to Jake Gyllenhaal quite a bit. He once came up behind me to say hello while I was dining with a genial Australian. I tried to introduce everyone, like, ‘Oh, this is — ,’ but then, being as shocked as we were, I forgot Jake’s name. ‘Don’t worry, mate,’ said my guest. ‘I know who he is.’ ”
“Paul Liebrandt thought I was my brother Oliver. It happens sometimes. People get excited that there’s a famous actor in their restaurant before they realize it’s me.”
Mario Batali
“I believe ‘Platt’s a miserable fuck’ was the direct quote.”
Keith McNally
“He sent an open letter to Eater that called me, among other not-inaccurate things, bald, overweight, and out of touch.”
The Guys From Carbone
“They kicked me out of one of their other restaurants, ZZ’s Clam Bar, which I viewed as a miracle from Heaven, but I think they quickly regretted it. That kind of thing doesn’t happen as often as people think, and sometimes I wonder why.”
“Negative reviews are more difficult than positive reviews, especially as you grow older and kinder. The most difficult are negative reviews of chefs you respect. My recent Commerce Inn review was like that. I wouldn’t call it negative, but it was difficult.”
He’s never the first person to arrive. He has either instructed you to make the reservation or he sent you a message a few hours earlier, telling you where he’s going and asking if you know anyone who wants to join. On rare occasions, he’ll text people while he’s sitting inside a restaurant to see if they can swing by. There are almost always four people at the table, unless Platt has invited too many people and a few stragglers come as well. Members of the Platt family are common, and there’s a rotating group of regular co-diners, like Chef Jeff and Schwab.
Everyone has to order something different, and if Platt has already been to the restaurant in question, he’ll tell you what he ate before. If a dish was really impressive on his first visit, he’ll allow someone to order it again, but in general, he invited you along only so he could order as much food as possible. After everyone has chosen — carefully coordinating separate appetizers and entrées — Platt will inevitably add four or five more things for everyone to share.
The food takes forever to come out. The reality is that it’s much more enjoyable to eat a meal without a critic. When Platt’s in the house, the mood in the dining room is noticeably less relaxed and the lulls between courses can start to feel interminable, even if Platt himself is always a chatty, enjoyable dining companion. When the dishes finally do arrive, our critic will try everything, tapping out notes on his phone and declaring certain things worthy of “10,000 stars” while others warrant immediate disdain. Fussy presentations don’t impress him, nor do elaborate garnishes — the food either tastes good or it doesn’t.
Dessert is a nonnegotiable must-order, even though you’re wondering how two hours have already passed (those appetizers really did take a long time to come out). Then Platt, of course, takes care of the bill and says his polite good-byes, like the gentleman he is.

Searching out a fiery new iteration of Sichuan noodles, say, or a pot of dry curry cooked the way it’s cooked in the kitchens of central Pakistan has always been a fine momentary cure whenever the urge to travel hits, especially in this international city and especially now. So if you’re feeling a little restless after a year’s hibernation on the couch, and if you’ve ever dreamed of touring the far-off culinary corners of India — places where the regional delicacies include well-simmered goat kidneys, lamb ribs steamed in pockets of banana leaves, and chunks of tenderized dogfish — then I suggest you strap on a mask and amble down to the jangling, brightly lit Pan-Indian bistro Dhamaka, which opened a couple of months ago near the entrance to the new, spaceship-size Essex Market building on the Lower East Side.
Dhamaka is the brainchild of Chintan Pandya and his partner, Roni Mazumdar, whose Long Island City canteen, Adda, was the darling of the city’s Indian-food set a couple of years back, during the dim pre-pandemic times. You can find unexpected goat parts on the menu at Adda, too, though the idea with this slightly more ambitious operation is to push New Yorkers further into regions where the masala-slurping, tandoori-loving hordes rarely go. The tables are set with silvery metal plates from the home country designed for eating in the traditional way: with your fingers and a wheel of bread. The sidewalk space is hung with strings of lights and covered with the kind of corrugated roof you see in restaurants around India, and as Bollywood tunes mingle with the sounds of traffic, it’s possible to feel, at long last, as if you’re getting out of the house and seeing a little of the wide world again.
The dogfish (“baby shark” on the menu) is a version of a fish-curry specialty from the coastal villages around Mazumdar’s hometown of Kolkata, for the record, and it’s served here in a rich stew with melting triangles of softly cooked potato. Before it arrived, we enjoyed small plates of pomfret, or paplet, flash-fried in a secret blend of flours and dusted with chile, cumin, and a hint of mango powder the way they do it in the bars of Mumbai, along with nuggets of crispy fried eggplant with small pots of bracing, wasabi-like Bengali mustard. A North Indian version of pig’s-head salad called doh khleh drove the pork loons at my table into fits of ecstasy, and it was followed by the Ramadan dish gurda kapoora (goat kidneys and testicles), a fiery dissertation on the textural joys of nose-to-tail cooking, served here with a stack of toasty, sweet pao buns on the side.
To create their eclectic menu, the proprietors co-opted old family recipes (the bharela marcha, stuffed sweet peppers, came from Pandya’s mother-in-law in Gujarat) and traveled widely throughout India for years. The most vigorous member of the research team was Pandya himself, who, prior to coming to New York, had spent years working in Mumbai with the Oberoi luxury-hotel chain. During the course of his regular culinary excursions around the country, he discovered many of the dishes on the menu, including an elaborate head-on-rabbit feast, popular during the hunting season in the northwestern state of Rajasthan, which he will reprise provided you manage to scrape together $190 and order the dish at least two days in advance.
I never did get a taste of this rabbit dish (“Rajasthani khargosh” on the menu), though we did enjoy tiger prawns grilled with plenty of black pepper and meatballs of minced chicken cooked with an egg inside as they do in the kitchens of Lucknow. We ate delicious chicken pulao brought to the table in the small pressure cooker in which it had just been prepared, great steamy servings of saffron-flavored biryani dotted here and there with savory nuggets of goat’s neck, and pots of spicy mutton done in the style of a northern Bihari town called Champaran, where the meat is cooked for hours in clay pots and served with a giant bulb of garlic on top that you mash into the stew with your spoon.
These ingredients are carefully sourced (which means there’s only one Rajasthani rabbit feast available per day at Dhamaka), and other hard-to-find items (hello, goat testicles) are rationed because when the suppliers in Jackson Heights don’t have them, they disappear from the menu. There are a variety of carefully sourced cocktails to choose from, too (gin garnished with betel leaf, mezcal mixed with green chile and passion fruit), and after the savory portion of dinner is over, be sure to call for the only house dessert, a warm, spongy, tangy, sugary curdled-milk treat called chhena poda. It’s placed in a tiny clay pot and stuck with little wooden spoons, just like on the street corners of Odisha, and unless you’ve been to that eastern part of India, I guarantee you’ve never tasted anything like it before.
119 Delancey St., at Essex St.; 212-204-8616; dhamaka.nyc
Open: Dinner Tuesday to Sunday.
Prices: $9 to $33.
Ideal meal: Paplet fry (with papdi chaat on the side), eggplant nuggets, pig’s-head salad, Champaran mutton and/or chicken pulao, goat’s-neck biryani, plenty of bottles of 1947 lager, chhena poda for dessert.
Note: The outdoor space is sturdy and well protected; the indoor space opens onto Essex Market at large, so for maximum safety, ask for a table by the door.

I am guilty. I am here to make amends. I have been to Jean-Georges’s new Park Avenue dining room, and I have occupied one of April Bloomfield’s 20 seats at Sailor. Having recommended both, let me now recommend an uninspiring stretch of Fourth Avenue in Brooklyn, hard by the tire shop and a nondescript liquor store. In an area I called Park Slope, until a Park Sloper of my acquaintance protested that the Gowanus dividing line is right down the middle of the avenue and we were west of it, stands Alma Negra, which opened in May 2022, during the long tail of the streetery era.
Inside, half of Alma Negra’s dining room is taken up by a long, wood-topped bar, around which orbit a bank of tables and a greenhouse’s worth of plant life. I never visited Alma Negra with more than a few hours’ notice, and I never encountered a problem or an attitude. Most important: I never had anything less than a very good meal.
Alma Negra is the third restaurant from Fermín Teco, who arrived in New York from Puebla, Mexico, in 2000 — the city has seen such a Poblano influx in the last few decades that it’s now called, in some corners, Puebla York — and began cooking at the kind of restaurants that teach a cook to be a chef, if not always a particularly novel or creative one. (He worked at Carmine’s, the Manhattan red-sauce tourist trap.) From there, he worked for Máximo Tejada at Rayuela and, in 2015, opened Amaranto in Bushwick. There, as at Alma Negra, he began cooking Mexican food that’s far older than what’s served at most of New York’s factory-line burritories—it’s Mayan as much as Mexican.
There’s no margarita on the colorful and extensive cocktail menu, and there doesn’t need to be. They’ll make you one if you want it, just like your local Irish pub will. There is guacamole listed among the entradas — a Mexican restaurateur probably can’t get away without it if they want to make payroll — and it’s fine, served with homemade fried tortillas. But why fill up when you could have a cool, spicy bowl of aguachile de tuna, a spoonable, cevicheish salad of nearly raw loin in an herby green broth with thin coins of jicama? Or one of Teco’s tamales, magically both dense and light in its ruddy bath of sikil pak, a smoky Mayan pumpkin-seed sauce? Unlike many traditional tamales, made with lard, Teco’s is vegan, which must be the secret to its soft touch. (It is also, like every dish save dessert, gluten free.)
Teco doesn’t skip steps. Down in the basement, he nixtamalizes his own corn — imported from Mexico — and presses his own tortillas, not in batches but to order. They’re not actually listed on the menu, but you should order them anyway. They arrive swaddled in a napkin-lined basket, blue as a bruise and earthy as anything. They’re perfect for wrapping up short ribs, braised for five hours in huaxmole, a tart, funky sauce made from guaje, sometimes called river tamarind. There is very little on the menu that I wouldn’t stick in one, authentic or not, like the pile of shrimp and squid atop vivid arroz verde, or the excellent octopus, a giant biceps whose bulk belies its tenderness, served in a peanut mole with an unexpectedly perfect complement of cauliflower.
Mexican food is never in short supply in this city, but at the moment, intriguing spots are coming fast and furious. I’m eager to try the newly opened Corima, from Fidel Caballero, in Chinatown, and Soledad, from Julian Medina, on the Upper East Side. Soon, I’m sure, I will, and the buzz and the rush of the latest will take hold again. But until then, I’m glad to have Alma Negra in my back pocket. On the nights I went — random weeknights — it filled up to a comfortable but not squashed fullness. I watched couples sipping mezcal and groups of three and four ordering dinner unhurriedly. I asked a Park Slope–dwelling colleague if he’d been, and he looked as though my asking left him confused. “Yeah, it’s good,” he said, furrowing his brow a little, and then, “Very good, actually.” Couldn’t have said it better myself.

Revenge, as they say, is a dish best served cold — unless that dish is Estelle’s chicken soup, one of the items Mark Strausman brought downtown to his new restaurant, Mark’s Off Madison , after being canned by Freds of Barneys a year and a half ago. Now, Freds and Barneys are things of the past, while that chicken soup, in all its herb-flecked, fortified-broth glory, lives on. Estelle was Strausman’s grandmother, and her namesake soup is indicative of the personal, nostalgic direction the chef has taken at his new digs on the ground floor of an office tower opposite Madison Square Park (the former A Voce space, reduced for now to a heated sidewalk patio).
Although Strausman hadn’t envisioned opening his solo project during a pandemic, the eclectic (though not inexpensive) comfort-food menu seems tailor-made for the present moment. Strausman, a self-identified “Jewish boy from Queens,” learned to cook in the grand hotels of Europe, enjoyed a fruitful collaboration with Tuscan impresario Pino Luongo, ran his own rustic Italian spot, Campagna, in the ’90s and then spent more than 20 years cultivating a devoted, if finicky, Freds clientele who treated the department-store restaurant like their own private power-brokering canteen. When Strausman spoke out in the pages of the New York Post against the new management company that had taken Barneys into bankruptcy (and, worse, tried to nix his sautéed chicken livers), the company fired him. When he went to the restaurant to say good-bye to his staff, only to be escorted from the premises by security, the lunch crowd gave him a standing ovation.
Those fans will find lots of old favorites at Mark’s: the cone of Belgian fries, thick yet crisp; the thin-crust pizzas; the entrée salads, each component meticulously sliced and diced into baby-size bites to save diners the exhausting work of cutting it themselves. The chef’s lasagna della nonna and eggplant parm are the same as ever — pure, plush conduits of red-sauce pleasure. For those in search of something less rich, two penne preparations — the minimalist A.O.P., a cross between an aglio e olio and an arrabbiata, and the broccoli-cauliflower-romanesco al Cefalù — may be the pasta section’s sleepers.
While Strausman concedes the greatest-hits aspect of the Mark’s menu, it’s clear he has taken some creative liberties since flying Barneys’ ninth-floor coop. The bagels he started baking as a Sundays-only sideline at Freds are available here four days a week, the stars of a full-blown bakery program that also includes loaves of bread, Bavarian pretzels, and old-school desserts like apple strudel and coffee cake. The bagels are dense, chewy, and smaller than the norm, with great flavor, and Strausman serves them appetizing-style with smoked fish and cream cheese or as the base for a variety of new egg sandwiches, including a BEC and a bagel Benedict.
There’s also a credible French dip (albeit on a slightly too tough ciabatta roll). But if you’re looking for a sandwich, go for the classic turkey club. On its face, there’s nothing unusual about it, but all the ingredients shine: good house-roasted turkey, substantial Nueske’s bacon, enough mayo to register its presence without making a mess, and decent lettuce and tomatoes, at least for January. And then there’s Strausman’s secret weapon: three slices of the toasted “buttermilk batch” bread that the chef bakes in-house.
As any right-thinking club-sandwich scholar will tell you, three slices of bread don’t so much distinguish a club as define it. But back when Strausman was slinging the things uptown, where carbophobes constituted the house majority, he was forced to buckle to popular demand and downscale to a two-slice club. This experience rankled the man, and you can practically hear the joy in his voice as he describes the triple-decker’s restoration: “I could not retire without doing a club sandwich correctly one more time,” he says. Now he has.
*This article appears in the February 1, 2021, issue of New York Magazine. Subscribe Now!

The Perelman Performing Arts Center, so-called thanks to a $75 million gift by the billionaire Ron Perelman, is, by any measure, a major addition to the arts, like a Shed South, with a little less of the craven capitalism of Hudson Yards. The aim of rebuilding terrorism-scarred downtown is nobler than that of working up a new neighborhood to plump with luxury residences, even if the result will likely be much the same. Hudson Yards has José Andrés; here, Metropolis by Marcus Samuelsson opened in November, the latest “love letter to New York.”
If Metropolis loves New York, will New York love Metropolis? I’m not sure. The restaurant hasn’t attracted the same buzz as, say, Samuelsson’s Hav & Mar or the way Red Rooster did back in 2010. On a pair of visits, the dining room’s 135 seats were always at least half-full, but despite a menu that ranges across communities and boroughs — “Flushing-style” oysters with XO sauce, seared duck with Oaxacan mole, Korean Caribbean oxtail — Metropolis, as designed by David Rockwell, has the uncanny feel of precisely nowhere. The long space, set back in the PAC lobby, beneath a telescoping, sculptural wooden ceiling, is redolent of international airport lounge. On one wall, an artwork depicts a topographically correct New York coastline in mother-of-pearl buttons. Bathrooms are identified by an illuminated, pictographic toilet. A glass-fronted corridor at the back is faced with lounge chairs to admire a runway slice of outside view.
The menu doesn’t always dispel the feeling. Much of it leans snacky, albeit in a dressed-up way: pigs in a blanket (rechristened “blanketed franks”), Iberified with Basque chistorra and patatas bravas sauce; bar-nosh fried pickles recast with olives and cornichons and a dip of everything-dusted mayo; four fingers of smoked hamachi to be piled with cabbage slaw and crema into tacos, an odd deli-barrio hybrid. The real point seems to be a tableside reveal that sends a cloud of savory smoke rising. “The hamachi taco is doing really well on social media,” our waiter told us.
“Vegas maximalism,” declared a friend, though Metropolis is hardly the only New York establishment practicing that. There are moments where it works: It’s a gimmick to crank a rich slurry of shrimp heads and lime onto shrimp toast from a golden grinder held above, but there’s no denying the deep, satisfying shrimpiness it provides.
Ed Tinoco, a New Yorker repatriated after a long stint in Chicago overseeing one of Grant Achatz’s temples to gonzo gastronomy, Next, runs the kitchen. Onika Brown, formerly of Per Se, handles desserts. Their credentials are impeccable, and often, so is their cooking. I loved the long-stewed oxtail, served in a flower-painted casserole dish over coconut rice, so sweet with iron and baking spice that I broke my usual rule and ordered it twice. I was similarly enamored of rare seared duck, dry-aged two weeks, served with a mole that Tinoco has been tending and shepherding for four years. Other dishes could have used more of that obsessive focus. Too many felt like bits of theater themselves. Some were drama (whole branzino served, banchan style, with too many extraneous bits and sides to fit into tiny lettuce cups). Others were comedy (around half the cocktail list, maybe the only place in New York to find vodka infused with Murray’s cheddar, put to work in a lime-green, carbonated appletini). Like all interactive theater, they offered diminishing returns.
It may be the theater where Samuelsson is most present. He acts, these days, more as a producer and ringmaster of other talent: The Samuelsson Group runs 15 restaurants around the world, a number of philanthropic initiatives, a Bahamian food festival, an accelerator fund for Black-owned businesses. Some are worthy; some are Jersey (Marcus Live! Bar and Grille, in the beleaguered American Dream megamall). Metropolis by Marcus Samuelsson, as he renders it, manages to be both. He’s married art to the Big Apple, and wound up with the big, cheesy appletini.

Plenty of restaurants closed during the great plague year, of course, but plenty opened, too. While most of us were slumbering on our couches in a Zoom-addled stupor, the irrepressible spirit of the dining world bubbled endlessly on just below the dark surface of things. Menus were composed; spaces leased; plans that had been hatched months, years, and even decades earlier inched forward. As dining sheds sprouted up on the sidewalks last summer, brick-and-mortar operations slowly began to open too. They opened in empty hotel lobbies (Vestry) and empty office towers (Le Pavillon). They opened in Brooklyn (Xilonen, Francie) and in different corners of the Bronx (Hudson Smokehouse), and now, as we emerge from our collective slumber, there are suddenly all sorts of new and unfamiliar places to try — many of which appear to have dropped, fully formed, out of the sky.
At least that’s how it appeared to me a few weeks back, when I wiped the sleep from my eyes and wandered over on a steamy summer evening to try to secure a table at the newish Shanghainese restaurant CheLi, which opened last fall among the jumble of cafés and ramen shacks on St. Marks Place in the East Village. They wouldn’t be able to seat us for a while, I was politely told, and scanning the buzzing room, you could see why. Whole families — including doting grandparents and babies in strollers — crowded around the tables. The owner, a restaurant group called DaShan, has built the space to resemble a quaint Chinese village, complete with carved wooden rooftops and paper lanterns hanging from bamboo rafters. And with the exception of the bustling, competent wait staff, most of the people in the room were conversing in Mandarin and even Shanghainese.
“This place is authentic, Dad,” said one of my daughters, who is qualified to know, having made the trip from Shanghai out to a few of the famous “water towns” that stretch along the rivers and canals leading toward the old imperial city of Hangzhou, a place famous for its pagoda temples and expansive lakes. This is the land of Hu-style, Shanghai-region cuisine, which, as any Shanghainese gourmet will likely tell you, is a subtler, sweeter, slightly more delicate version of the kind of cooking that you’ll find farther north or in the country’s fiery, ma la–pepper–loving interior. The specialties include dishes like xiao long bao (soup dumplings), freshwater eel and fish dishes, and anything touched with the local Shaoxing wine, many of which are faithfully reproduced here by the chef, Qiling Wang, who grew up outside Shanghai, and his wife, Fang Fang, who conjures up the restaurant’s excellent desserts.
We began with the perfectly steamed, perfectly weighted soup dumplings, of course, which you can get with an exotic infusion of black truffles but which worked best with the usual stuffings of pork and crab. I could have eaten them all night, to be honest, but duty called us to move on to other appetizer creations, like the crunchy-bottomed “triple crisp” pork-and-scallion dumplings (excellent), little soy-lacquered strips of smoked fish (ditto), and a mound of rice topped with uni, which our server poured with a steamy pot of pu’erh tea. There were also tasty little stacks of sweet-and-sour riblets and cool, fresh cockles doused in fierce amounts of chile oil, although nothing encapsulated the chef’s particular sense of style quite like my order of wine-soaked Atlantic blue crab, which was poached in Shaoxing wine like that Shanghai delicacy hairy crab and served cold on the plate with a scattering of flower petals.
Wang belongs to a new generation of chefs around town that grew up in the dynamic, evolving world of food and restaurants in China, where the familiar old silos of regional cooking are being reworked in elaborate and innovative ways. As my colleague Robert Sietsema has pointed out, Wang has a habit of dousing his soups and stews with nontraditional, non-Chinese ingredients like uni and morel mushrooms, and if you call for a helping of the aromatic stewed pork belly, you’ll find that it’s folded, not unpleasantly, with little marble-size boiled quail eggs. There are two varieties of Atlantic lobster on the menu (tossed with a special garlic-butter sauce and a three-alarm “spicy” version); a tender, herbaceous, equally spicy Hunan beef; and diced chicken with mushrooms spooned into lettuce cups at tableside with an unorthodox garnish of popped “rice crispies.”
“We haven’t even scratched the surface of the menu here,” my daughter said, as we worked our happy way through these excellent dishes on our most recent visit to CheLi, and of course she was right. There were stacks of crispy eels, prawns flavored with more black truffles, crab stews mingled with a substance called “peach resin,” and a $32 dish somewhat menacingly described as “Qianlong’s Favorite Fish Head.” Chef Fang Fang’s desserts can be sampled in one sitting, however, and if you’re a fan of steamed buns, or bowls of sweetened congee, or soupy little dumplings stuffed with black sesame or red dates, they’re worth the price of admission. All of these delicacies have their charms, but if you just get one, make it the great, pillow-size Song Dynasty steamed bun, which is served with a honeyed dipping sauce and stamped with a red seal, as though it has just emerged from some grand imperial kitchen.
Open: Daily for lunch and dinner.
Prices: Appetizers, $6 to $15; entrées, $18 to $35.
Recommended dishes: Xiao long bao, wine-soaked Atlantic blue crab, smoked fish, spicy cockles, sweet-and-sour short pork ribs, Hunan-style stir-fried beef, crispy eel, chicken lettuce wrap, egg-fried rice with soy sauce, “moonlight” vegetables, Song Dynasty steam bun, “triple sweet” dessert.
Note: The restaurant takes reservations only for parties of six or more.

If you’ve forgotten, or can only half recall, the special kind of buzzy frenzy that used to attend certain hit word-of-mouth restaurants in the sun-splashed days before delivery dining and pantry dining and before the streets of the city were lined with abandoned dinner sheds, then I suggest you spend a bit of time, as I did not long ago, trying to secure a table at Calvin Eng’s popular new Cantonese brasserie, Bonnie’s, which opened a couple of months ago in Williamsburg. Despite repeated scrollings, the dreaded NOTIFY kept popping up in my reservation app. As the level of hype and breathless hysteria increased (“Everybody’s talking about Bonnie’s!” cried one Brooklyn friend), I considered loitering hopefully at the bar. If that were to fail, there was always the carryout option, though how I would enjoy Eng’s patented cha siu “McRib” while standing on the frigid sidewalk miles from home was anyone’s guess.
In the end, I got a table at Bonnie’s the way desperate dining obsessives used to back in the day: by accepting the invitation of a well-connected friend who had booked her spot weeks in advance. At the early hour of 6 p.m., the tidy, well-lit space was already filled with familiar characters from the Williamsburg dining scene: a family or two, bearded gentlemen sipping Penicillins flavored with Ceylon tea at the tiny bar, people antically toasting one another with goblets of orange wine. Eng is a New Yorker from Bay Ridge, but the restaurant is named for his mother and her brand of Cantonese cooking, and he has said the décor — which includes a checkered tile floor and a large pass-through to the kitchen that fills the room, as dinner progresses, with the smells of egg noodles and steamy chicken broth — is inspired by the short-order cha chaan teng café culture that originated in colonial Hong Kong.
Cha chaan teng serve casual dishes like egg sandwiches and noodle soups, interspersed with a hodgepodge of western touches, making the genre fertile ground for a classically trained chef like Eng, who grew up in the David Chang era of cross-cultural Asian experimentation (before striking out on his own, Eng was chef de cuisine at the Taiwan-influenced Win Son in Brooklyn). He’s equally at home with traditional Cantonese cooking as he is with the old Italian favorites of Rome and Bay Ridge, which means you’ll find platters of classic, crispy fried salt-and-pepper squid on the menu side by side with great stuffed-hairnet-size salads made with chrysanthemum leaves and soy-sesame dressing and a version of cacio e pepe that looks like something you would order in a Roman trattoria — until you notice the furtive extra umami kick of fermented bean curd.
We began our dinner with cold oysters on the half-shell, each one touched with a mignonette spiced with white peppercorn and ginger, along with a platter of vividly green Chinese long beans dripped with a combination of garlic butter and more fermented bean curd, which we ate with mounds of rice served in blue-and-white china bowls. The biting, pleasingly peppery salt-and-pepper squid were served with warm greens and a radical Chang-style cup of MSG-spiked ranch dressing for dipping, and they arrived with other faithfully executed Cantonese seafood dishes, including fried shrimp with candied walnuts (enlivened with slivers of apple and little spoonfuls of Kewpie mayonnaise sweetened with honey) and a serving of littleneck clams set on a bed of hot, savory custard, which also went nicely with our bowls of rice.
The helpings are on the small side at Bonnie’s, and the cooking has a fresh, hot-off-the-griddle feel, but what separates it from your average Hong Kong–style diner is the level of technical expertise. “This is a five-star dish,” someone at the table said as we peered at Chef Eng’s fusion wun tun en brodo, comprising delicately rolled tortellini-style wontons stuffed with a shrimp-and-fish filling, floating in a pork-and-chicken-bone brodo simmered with Parmesan and a hint of orange. The same was true of the aforementioned cha siu McRib (pickles, Chinese mustard, and glazed pork squeezed between a fresh-baked Chinatown milk bun) and the lovely, aromatic congee constructed with jasmine rice bubbled in a rich vegetable broth, then finished, as on the streets of Taipei or Hong Kong, with crushed peanuts, scallions, and a yauh ja gwai, or Chinese cruller.
I’d fight my way back into Bonnie’s for this congee creation, though maybe not for the overwhelmingly thick and peppery black-pepper-steak chow mein or the $52 whole stuffed, deboned trout (yeung yu sang choi bao), which is a lot to pay for what’s essentially a gourmet Cantonese-style fish sausage. If you’re still in the market for a large-format item after all this grub, get the cold poached chicken instead, which is plated atop a pile of rice tossed with a ginger-and-scallion sauce and served with a warming cup of chicken broth. There are also plenty of warming cocktails available at this inventive, properly hyped little establishment (no, we did not try the espresso martini spiked with orange-pekoe tea), five kinds of XO cognac, and a fine vanilla-ice-cream sundae folded with chunks of malted fried milk and crowned in the traditional American way with a cherry on top.
Open: Dinner Tuesday through Sunday.
Prices: $4 to $52.
Recommended dishes: Wun tun en brodo, hup to ha (shrimp with candied walnuts), dao si heen jing sui dan (clams with savory egg custard), jiew yeem yao yu (salt-and-pepper squid), bak cheet gai (cold poached chicken), cha siu McRib, chow nai sundae.
Note: Ask for the table up front with the lazy Susan and, if you’re feeling brave, the grandiose $80 pot of Long Island iced tea, which serves up to ten and is mixed with Hennessy, gin, blanco tequila, vodka, white rum, and Mexican Coke.

The restaurant, which began life as a series of pop-ups, is taking norteño cooking out of the quesadilla shops and planting its flag in fine dining. The space — long, deep, dark, a block west of Dimes Square’s hubbub — is split in two with a front-bar area for à la carte dining and a more secluded back room, in direct view of Caballero, his team, and an impressively flaming grill, for a two-hour, $98 tasting.
There is significant overlap among the two menus, and even opening cocktails have a tweak of the unexpected. Amid the city’s profusion of mezcal bars, Corima offers sotol, a Chihuahua spirit distilled from the desert shrub of the same name. In the Desert Rain, mixed with Cocchi Americano for a kind of alt-white Negroni, it had a milder profile and an intriguing freshness. “I’ve spent a lot of time in the desert,” our waitress opined, “and the Desert Rain has the taste of desert rain.”
Besides a cheese quesadilla with huitlacoche and, for extra mushroom funk, black truffle, there’s not much you’re likely to have encountered elsewhere. It’s no longer all that unusual to find insect garnishes, though you may need translation assistance to understand that the chicatanas dusting a tlayuda (an Oaxacan snack that’s like a distant cousin of the nacho) with beef cecina (salted and air-dried like a tender Mexican bresaola) are a smoky shower of ants.
Caballero cooked at Contra and at a three-star Michelin restaurant in Spain before opening Corima with his wife, Sofia Ostos. Chefiness pervades. Aycote beans come with a sour whey broth and a lacy kerchief of housemade headcheese. Straighter down the middle is a full raw-bar platter with spicy surf clam with leche de tigre, razor clams, oysters, and albacore — until you come to the roe-dotted jalapeño mince served on cobwebby sheets of Japanese gamtae.
For my tastes, Caballero’s interpretations of his home cuisine would have been more than enough, but Corima dabbles in japonaiserie so often, from the Tokyo-style décor of bare wooden tables and angular, uncomfortable benches and stools to regular-enough cameos of Japanese ingredients and techniques, that the restaurant could fairly be characterized as what we used to call “fusion.” Did I need uni — “three-quarters of an ounce,” the bartender confided — stirred into my $22 gin sour? Besides mild shock value and a faint, back-end hit of ocean salt, I’m not sure what it added. Edamame guacamole on the tlayuda. Potato udon (“wet fries,” I’d have to say) in the corn-husk dashi. Nixtamalized daikon. Chicharron furikake. Okay! Mexico’s northernmost states have historically seen plenty of outside influence — the carne asada that originated there came from Spanish settlers bringing cattle; Chihuahua cheese was originally made by local Mennonites — but the international interventions at Corima tend to distract as often as they add.
The real reason to go to Corima is its sourdough tortillas: warm, char-pocked, and cuddled into a bowl. My colleague Tammie Teclemariam rated them among the best flour tortillas in New York City and had the luck of watching one being made, stretched onto an inverted wok while its raw side was tanned with a blowtorch. Elastic and yeasty with a satisfying chew, it comes with a slick of recado-negro butter with the tannic, slightly coffeeish tang of red-eye gravy.
You could wrap hanks of it around any of the mains: a nearly black-skinned red snapper blinking up from its plate, tender carne asada in a chile jus, or my favorite, braised duck enmoladas, ready to be rescued from beneath an opaque bog of cotija foam. (“They’re experimenting with levels of wet,” one of my guests noted doubtfully.) You could just as soon take it straight. At $9, it’s a luxury tortilla. Even still, we finished ours and called for another. In the Tarahumara culture, indigenous to Chihuahua, corima means “circle of sharing,” but it was one circle I didn’t care to share.

In this perilous, storm-tossed time, when cooks and their restaurants are being swept under the waves and blown far out to sea, it helps to be an adaptable jack-of-all-trades. During the course of his long and varied career, John Fraser has worked in grand kitchens (the French Laundry and Le Taillevent), cooked wonderful Greek food (back in the aughts at Snack Taverna), and attempted (and failed) to introduce stolid Upper West Siders to the joys of modern haute cuisine (at the long-shuttered Compass and Michelin-starred Dovetail). Over the years, as fashions have ebbed and flowed, he has cooked up first-rate neighborhood cheeseburgers (the Loyal), mastered the art of glitzy hospitality hotel cooking (with André Balazs at the Standard), and helped pioneer the great plant-based craze (at Balazs’s Narcissa and the late lamented Nix), which is still with us today.
Now comes the Aegean-themed Iris, a restaurant so welcome and weirdly unexpected that it has the look, on a quiet summer evening, of a small island oasis sitting in the becalmed shoals of midtown. The outdoor space, at the bottom of an almost empty Broadway office building below 56th Street, is furnished with parasols and fringed with boxes of wavy green vegetation. The room inside was mostly full on the evenings I dropped by, which is a bit of a miracle in this part of town, and with its tan-and-white color tones, it has the feel of a cruise-ship dining room from that long-ago era before cruise ships were the size of supertankers. There are potted plants here and there and round nautical-looking light fixtures on the walls. The waitstaff are dressed in breezy maritime-blue jackets and white shoes, and as we studied our menus, the soothing clacking sounds of cocktails being shaken emanated from the bar.
“It’s nice not to be eating curbside in some outdoor shack,” one of my guests said as we sipped our festive, oversweet cocktails, which had comical cruise-ship names like Melon of Troy (vodka with cantaloupe) and Calypso’s Spell (tequila with mountain tea). The very good meze portion of dinner included mini-platters of hummus covered in drifts of sumac and fennel pollen, and hand-wrapped grape-leaf dolmas made with discernible kernels of rice instead of the usual mushy substance you get from a can. There was plenty of baked bread too (try the lightly fluffy sourdough pitas and the tear-shaped Turkish flatbreads spread with lamb or squash blossoms), and spindles of kebab (stuck with sweetbreads or roasted quail), along with what was quite possibly the finest Greek salad this salad-averse critic has ever enjoyed, made with cucumbers, blocks of fresh feta, and a bounty of late-summer tomatoes.
Fraser grew up with Greek cooking, but he operates a small fleet of restaurants now, and the man in charge of his kitchen crew here is a well-traveled professional named Rob Lawson, who has a talent for reprising familiar dishes with a light gourmet touch. That de rigueur pillar of the Greek culinary experience, the grilled octopus tentacle, was charred to a perfect tenderness when I tasted it and was flavored with a citrusy, faintly spicy combination of lemon, Turkish chile, and candied kumquat. You can get chunks of swordfish grilled the traditional way on a kebab or fashioned into an elegant tartare with crushed pistachios and mint, and the eggplant options are excellent and numerous (they come pickled with your dolmas, baked into a moussaka, and whipped into a nice baba ghannouj with golden raisins), but my favorite was the “fried” option, which the kitchen sizzles to a delicate tempura crunch.
Not surprisingly, lamb also features prominently on the menu at Iris (provided you can afford the hefty $65 price tag, I recommend calling for the lamb chops), though, as at most first-class establishments along the Greek or Turkish coast, seafood is the real star of the show. In addition to the swordfish, we enjoyed a bountiful, well-balanced Aegean seafood stew filled with Atlantic lobster and mussels, among many other things, plus a bowl of sweet diver scallops and shrimp dripped with plenty of brown butter and set on a polentalike substance made with the ancient grain trahana. For larger, more boisterous groups, there are several whole fish to choose from (red snapper baked in grape leaves, dorade and sea bass grilled by the pound) along with a melon-size boureki puff pastry that the chefs stuff with Alaskan salmon and a scrim of spinach and serve with dollops of caviar.
As befits any proper cruise-ship operation, you can addle yourself with all sorts of pleasurable potions and liqueurs at Fraser’s newest restaurant (I counted 16 bottles under the ouzo-and-raki-filled “Aegean Spirits” section), but you’d be wise to focus on the impressive multipage wine list, especially the selection of crisp whites from Greece and Turkey. On my visits, an old-fashioned pastry cart was being perambulated to and fro among the tables, filled with traditional sweets from the region. There’s a nice rice pudding, too, and a basket of fluffy, Mediterranean-style beignets flavored with sesame and cardamom, though if you want to forget the cares of the world just a little while longer, I suggest the sticky, fresh-baked baklava, which is brought to the table in a cut-glass bowl, dappled in pistachios, and sunk into a pleasantly boozy cloud of what the menu identifies as “drunken cream.”
Open: Dinner Tuesday through Saturday.
Prices: Appetizers, $5 to $46; entrées, $32 to $72 (possibly more if you order your fish by the pound).
Recommended dishes: Meze mix, Greek salad, fried eggplant, lamb chops, Aegean stew, baklava.
Note: The house happy hour runs from 5 to 6:30 p.m. and includes discounted meze and a lamb burger that hasn’t yet made its way onto the dinner menu.

Over the years, I’ve seen diners register displeasure with a meal, or a certain dish, in all sorts of ways. There’s the standard huffy call to the server when a steak is too bloody or a delicate piece of fish is overcooked, of course. There’s the subtle push away favored by professional eaters like me, which tends to be quieter and more discreet the more reputable the establishment and the chef. There are the time-honored facial expressions telegraphing various levels of distress — the archly cocked eyebrow, the rolling of the eyes, the sour-lemon look of distaste. At the polite review dinners that I convene, these outbursts tend to be rare, especially during the COVID era, and usually involve one or two dyspeptic souls (hint: Usually that’s me), though every once in a long while you’ll get a dish or two where the frowns and subtle eye-rolling and sour-faced looks occur all at once.
This happened more than a few times on my visits to Jody Williams and Rita Sodi’s experiment in ye olde Shaker-inspired and early American “cookery,” the Commerce Inn, which has been doing a brisk business selling Yankee delicacies (chowders, baked beans, ancient cocktails spiked with red wine and apple brandy) ever since opening in a storied tavern space in the West Village several months ago. To be fair, no one was quite sure whether this was our fault (the reviews have been good; everyone around us seemed to be having a fine time), or the kitchen’s (we were all admirers of the chefs’ other excellent West Village endeavors: I Sodi, Via Carota, and the French bistro Buvette), or the Shakers’ — members of a Christian sect who, for the record, were more famous for their carpentry skills than their cooking and have now mostly vanished from the face of the Earth (it didn’t help that they advocated celibacy).
During their heyday, however, the Shakers exhibited many qualities (self-sufficiency, thriftiness, farming and pickling skills, a love of beans) that might appeal to anyone opening a new restaurant during the depths of a pandemic, and the glowing little space on Commerce Street is filled with examples of their tastefully spare aesthetic. There are boxes of oyster shells stacked by the entrance, and if you happen to be wearing a great woolen winter coat (or a Pilgrim hat), you can hang it on one of the rows of carved wooden pegs that run the length of the dining room. The only decorations on the walls are white serving platters, and in contrast to the noisy tavern side of the room, the tables are set as if for a church supper, with spindle-back chairs and folded white napkins.
The wait staff at Commerce Inn aren’t dressed in hand-sewn Shaker costume (they wear suitably muted dun-colored vests), but the small “Bill of Fare” pub menu is printed out in the kind of font that you’d see in a museum exhibit or on the wall of a library in Salem, Massachusetts. It advertised fresh and pickled oysters on the half-shell, which our little party had no problem devouring, and an underwhelming version of that British comfort-food favorite rarebit, the cheesy cheddar top of which wasn’t quite melted when I sampled it another time. There was also a $33 serving of lobster chowder, which looked as if it might actually have been conjured from some 17th-century Puritan recipe (gooey and gray with bits of tiny lobster leg sticking from the bowl) and a small, weirdly listless $25 pair of New England cod cakes, which lacked any trace of sizzled, just-cooked crunch.
The mood at our table brightened with the arrival of a chicory salad folded with hazelnuts and plenty of raisins and some very nice pork-and-molasses “Shaker beans,” which we enjoyed with helpings of warm spoon bread, just the way they used to do back on the old farmstead. My briny roast chicken wasn’t horrible by big-city standards, though to the chagrin of the ham lover at our table, the “country ham” turned out to be a few meager prosciutto-like slivers of smoked ham with a ration of crusty bread on the side. If anything involving the word pork (chewy, flavorful ribs; a bountiful fatty chop) is scrawled on the daily-special chalkboard, get it, but I never saw any evidence of the “fortifying pot pies” promised on the website, and when I inquired hopefully about the rabbit stew at 7:10 p.m. one visit, I was told the kitchen had already run out.
Given the Williams-Sodi track record, I’m sure these kinks will be worked out in time, and as any country cook will tell you, the menu always improves as the weather warms up and early spring turns slowly to summer. As one remorselessly seasonal “heirloom” recipe succeeded another, however, I couldn’t help pining for a proper pub burger, perhaps, or some mint sauce to go with my chewy lamb chops, or even a helping of mashed potatoes poured with gravy. Comfort, when it finally arrives at this curiously uncomfortable establishment, does so in the traditional way, at dessert time, with wedges of clothbound cheddar and Bayley Hazen Blue cheese and a series of cakes and puddings (a densely rich ginger cake, date-pear pudding sitting in a pool of caramel, rhubarb crumble with a jug of cream), which brought nothing but smiles and looks of happiness and contentment to the assembled Pilgrims at our table.
Open: Dinner Tuesday through Sunday.
Prices: $12 to $42.
Recommended dishes: Pickled oysters, chicory salad, pork chop, Shaker beans, spoon bread, date pudding, rhubarb crumble.
Note: There are some interesting seasonally changing cocktails at the bar (a gin-based Sage Advice and the Old Commerce with Woodford Reserve, amaro, and cinnamon, when we went), but be warned: The house martini is mixed the old-fashioned way with equal parts gin and vermouth.

All sorts of unexpected delicacies have wormed their way into our hearts over this past grim, mostly housebound year, from packets of Sapporo ramen (best in the morning with a fried egg dropped on top), to cans of tomato soup (lunchtime only with a grilled-cheese sandwich), to that great champion of the COVID cupboard, the heirloom bean. And when it comes to the rainbow of takeout and delivery options around town, I’ve found that nothing lifts morale quite like the occasional communal bucket or box of fried chicken with all the usual fixings, which is more economical than your average takeout Chinese feast (the 12-piece family meal at Popeyes costs $29.99) and more durable than other sinful pleasures (like sushi or, God forbid, carryout foie gras), and tastes much better the next day than a tub of congealed lo mein, say, or that dry slice of pizza sitting at the back of your fridge.
I’ve enjoyed many fried-chicken dinners during the course of this plague year, from Popeyes to Cote steakhouse and the Beatrice Inn, so when word of Eric Huang’s quirky delivery operation out in Fresh Meadows, called Pecking House, reached my little corner of lower Manhattan, I quickly signed up for a taste. Like many new comfort-food impresarios around town, Huang is a highly credentialed chef (he used to be the sous-chef at Eleven Madison Park). He developed his concept on the fly in the deserted kitchen of his uncle’s Queens restaurant, Peking House, after it closed this summer. Thirty-five dollars will buy you three pieces of his Chinese-accented version of Nashville hot chicken — which is a lot to pay for chicken — but, as word of its deliciousness has spread far and wide, the waiting list is now hundreds of names long.
The price of a Pecking House dinner includes three sides (delivery to Manhattan, Queens, or Brooklyn is an additional $5), and after following email instructions and being given a secret password to place the order, our chicken dinner arrived almost exactly on time, bundled in two paper bags and an impressive collection of plastic containers. My assembled panel of family critics pointed out that the food seemed to have lost a little of its heat on the long ride into Manhattan, which was true, although the smooth, rich mashed sweet potatoes were warm enough to gobble immediately, and so was Huang’s excellent interpretation of dirty rice, which the chef makes with the usual Cajun ingredients (chicken livers; gently melted bits of celery, onions, and bell peppers) and then tosses, in the traditional family style, in a giant wok.
But the centerpiece of the meal is the fried chicken, of course, and even after the long drive, it’s lovely to look at, with dark, crunchy knobs of crinkled skin around the edges and a deep rusty-red exterior speckled with chile seeds and bits of red pepper. Huang brines his bird in buttermilk and a combination of powders and seasonings; rolls it in flour, cornstarch, potato starch, and a substance called EverCrisp for a feathery, durable crunch; then finishes it, after frying, with a red, pasty mix of tingly Chinese peppers and spices and a dribbling of duck fat. A couple of our larger pieces were overly rare inside (“It tastes great, Dad, but this looks like they just took an ax to the chicken”), but the texture was admirably crunchy on the outside and tender within, and the blend of heat and spices left a pleasing tingle on the lips. Was it better than our local Popeyes? Given the cost and logistics, the assembled critics thought that was a silly question, but if and when Chef Huang opens a brick-and-mortar operation, we’ll be making a family visit. In the meantime, Dad can attest that like any great fried chicken, this one tastes even better the next day, especially with a little sriracha on the side, blended with a spoonful or two of mayonnaise.
*A version of this article appears in the January 18, 2021, issue of New York Magazine. Subscribe Now!

As one long plague year bleeds into the next, we can confirm now that there is such a thing as a COVID-era restaurant. Perhaps this establishment began life as a pop-up, so the room tends to be smallish in size, at least compared with the ungainly 200-seat mastodons that populated the Earth before it. The menu is smallish too, by yesteryear’s standards, and tends to focus on simple comforts reimagined in quirky, inventive ways (the fried chicken at Pecking House, the fish and chips at Dame). There is a sense of neighborly community to the cooking (because in COVID times, most patrons are from the neighborhood) and, to stretch the mammal-versus-dinosaur metaphor a bit further, a kind of full-service adaptability, which means it may be possible to get a fine cup of coffee in the late afternoon or a sandwich to enjoy in the evening while you drink yourself silly at the bar.
Porcelain, which appeared in 2019 on Woodward Avenue in Ridgewood, is one of these restaurants. The inviting, slightly disheveled space opened as an Austrian café after being commandeered by Martin Scorsese as a set for his lugubrious gangster film The Irishman. The cane chairs, café tables, and decorative old oil portraits on the walls look like remnants of the Austrian period, and the dark cherry bar was constructed by Scorsese’s prop people, who also left a properly scuffed ’50s-era linoleum-tile floor. A talented out-of-work chef from the neighborhood named Kate Telfeyan began hosting weekly pop-ups there, themed around her Instagram account, “Vaguely Asian,” and as word got around, she started to serve brunch and lunch and finally dinner.
Telfeyan is a refugee from the famously harsh Mission Chinese Food culture (she was head chef at the East Williamsburg location), and she has said she now wants to cultivate the opposite kind of atmosphere in both her kitchen and the front of the house. Food orders are taken at the bar, and servers bring the dishes to your table, which could be by the piano in one far corner of the room or at the couch by the window up front (it is always set for a party of two). It could be at the bar (filled with people drinking very nice negronis tinged with juniper), or it could even be outdoors on the frigid sidewalk, which is lined with tables and strung with lights, though you won’t find any toasty, sturdily constructed dining huts here because only prosperous pre-COVID restaurants can afford those.
The bountiful brand of Korean-Chinese fusion cooking has a similar modestly elegant style. Only two dishes on the dinner menu cost more than $25, the kimchee-brined fried chicken and the steamed whole fish — which is covered in coriander and set in a pool of vinegar, Sichuan pepper, and pickled mustard greens — and they’re large enough to feed a small family and are hoisted to the table on great metal trays. On my visits, we enjoyed these dishes with helpings of cool, fat wheat noodles tossed with bits of roast pumpkin and crisp fried dumplings stuffed with finely ground deposits of Korean soondae (blood sausage). The excellent fried pork chop sliced into delicate pieces costs just $19 and is dappled with dried nori, among other things, while the house curry is flavored with cashews and served with the kind of crunchy deep-fried fritter you get with your bowl of morning congee on the streets of Taipei or Hong Kong.
Telfeyan has a taste for innovation and the kind of showmanship that used to be the hallmark of gonzo he-man kitchens like Mission Chinese, but she also has a talent for plant-based cooking, which gives many of her experiments a subtle quality. In addition to the aforementioned cashew curry, which we ate with golden metal chopsticks and bowls filled with steamy rice, I enjoyed the shaved, barely cooked “hot and sour” potatoes in a tangy sauce made with black vinegar, Shaoxing wine, and sesame oil and the strips of crinkled yuba tossed Sichuan-style with three kinds of chiles. If you feel like walking on the wild side, the dish to get is the dan dan lasagna, which the kitchen layers with mushrooms and whipped tofu instead of the usual Italian fillings and tops with perhaps a little too much black-sesame sauce.
In the tradition of adaptable establishments everywhere, Porcelain’s very good all-day menu, which until just a few weeks ago began at 11 a.m., was recently suspended for the cold Omicron months, with the idea, according to the manager, of restarting it when the weather heats up. For the record, and in the fervent hope that this day will come, I recommend the rib-sticking tomato egg noodles for sitting outdoors on a warm weekend afternoon in one of the violet-colored plastic wicker chairs or anything with the word sandwich at the end of it, especially the mortadella with egg and cheese or the spicy “crispy lamb” stuffed into a crunchy ciabatta bun. The fusion café pastries like the ginger-cinnamon mochi cake are very nice too, and so are the tofu puddings, a version of which is served in the evening, sprinkled with kernels of popped black rice and small frozen Concord grapes.
Open: Dinner Wednesday through Sunday.
Prices: $10 to $38.
Recommended dishes: Cashew curry, triple-chile yuba, pork chop, steamed whole fish, tofu pudding.
Note: The small café wine list packs an impressive punch, especially in the Riesling department (I counted 20 options), but if you’re in the market for something to warm you up, try the soju-based negroni.

In the spirit of this ever-changing, slightly nerve-racking holiday COVID season, the latest Ignacio Mattos venture, called Lodi, which opened a few months ago in Rockefeller Center, seems to have been designed with every possible occasion in mind. It’s an Italian espresso bar equipped with hissing coffee machines and a counter made of polished white marble where you can sip a bracing cup under your mask before ducking back into the cold. It’s a pastry shop, too, and a bakery that turns out six comforting varieties of Italian bread beginning at 8 a.m. There are eggs over toast for breakfast and a variety of to-go panini for lunch, and if you’re in the mood for a proper sit-down meal, you can dine outdoors with a view of the great Christmas tree or in the airy enclosed terrazza, which is filled with linen-covered tables set with glittering silver, just like in the best cafés of Milan.
The terrazza is where I found myself sitting on my first visit, though not before perusing the shelves inside, which are stocked with fancy Italian pantry items (Tuscan honeys, jars of candied Sicilian oranges), and purchasing a small box of sugary palmier-style cookies to take home for an after-dinner snack. There were heaters affixed to the ceiling in this cozy little makeshift dining space, and the wait staff wore waist aprons, knotted black ties, and traditional Italian waiters’ jackets with lines of pens in their pockets. “I feel like I’m on a movie set inside a movie set,” someone said as we watched the slightly surreal pageant of Rockefeller Center Christmas go by outside the windows, complete with masked shoppers carrying bags from FAO Schwarz, pink-cheeked ice-skaters on their way to the rink across the street, and members of the Salvation Army dressed in red.
Mattos has dabbled with all sorts of flavors and cuisines during his career (Spanish cooking at his great flagship restaurant, Estela; seafood at the late, lamented Flora Bar; and Italian bistro at Altro Paradiso in Soho). But in this most traditional of midtown settings (with the most traditional of midtown landlords), he and his talented chef de cuisine, Maxime Pradié, have produced a well-edited “all day” café menu filled with elevated, expertly sourced classics mostly from the northern regions of Italy. Before the first wave of antipasti arrived, we sampled ribbons of mortadella and 30-month-aged prosciutto di Parma and soft slices of Gorgonzola with chestnut honey on the side. There were pâtés on little wheels of crostini after that and a decorative serving of Spanish anchovies laid out, with roasted peppers and butter on the side, like a fan on the plate.
The anchovies are designed to be spread with plenty of butter or olive oil on squares of focaccia and assorted other fresh-baked breads that are brought to the table in silver baskets and replenished when supplies run out. I enjoyed the focaccia with the prosciutto and spoonfuls of the excellent house caponata and used it to mop up the soup of the day, a hearty Tuscan broth made with shreds of cabbage, potatoes, and, at the bottom of the bowl, crumblings of prosciutto. There were servings of warm butter beans tossed with pancetta and tomatoes in this round of antipasti, too, and a decent insalata di mare, though the dish I’ll be returning to Rock Center for is the vitello tonnato that Pradié and his cooks prepare just as they do in the finest establishments up in the Piedmont, with thin, pinkish slivers of veal, a gentle sprinkling of capers, and a rich garlicky scoop of tuna mayonnaise on top.
Only four secondi-style entrées were available on the days I dropped by Lodi (“praise” in Italian and the name of a town outside Milan), but what the menu lacks in variety, it makes up for in quality and impeccable technique. Twenty-four dollars is a lot to pay for a single pork sausage, even these days, but you won’t find a better example of state-of-the-art Tuscan salsiccia-making in this neighborhood, especially when you include the dabs of poached turnips and sweet Cremona relish on the side. The giant-size vegetarian at my table gave two enthusiastic thumbs up to the cabbage-wrapped risotto “involtino,” which was sprinkled with black truffles, and gobbled it down so quickly I never got a taste. The same thing almost happened with the brasato di manzo (fatty, tender braised beef) on the evening we ordered it, and with the magisterial house porchetta, which is a special on Fridays.
Chef Pradié is a veteran of Flora Bar and cures his crackly porchetta in plenty of fennel pollen, for the record, along with the usual blend of Tuscan spices; he gets his pork loin from the famous hog purveyor Tank Jackson down in South Carolina. If you miss the Friday sit-down version, you can purchase the porchetta panino to go any day of the week and munch it as I did a few days ago, while shopping for holiday gifts up and down the avenues. You can get a variety of pastries to take away, too (wedges of polenta cake, the multilayered chocolate-hazelnut “torta Purgatorio”). The classic crème caramel is best enjoyed in-house, however, and so is the small mountain of fior di latte gelato, which is made to order for groups of two or more and brought to the table in a frosty double-size ice-cream-sundae coupe, which looks as if it has been beamed in directly from one of the holiday fantasia performances outside.
Open: Daily for breakfast, lunch, and early supper.
Prices: $8 to $34.
Recommended dishes: Anchovies, caponata, butter beans with tomato, vitello tonnato, soup of the day, poached beef or chicken (depending on the day), porchetta on Fridays, gelato for two.
Note: The liquor license is due in January, but pay attention to non-booze specialties like the “spirit free” citrus spritz, the great orange-carrot-and-ginger breakfast drink, and the house Arnoldo Palmer made with iced Earl Grey and an extra touch of bergamot.

If Sailor is an attempt to evade the spotlight, good luck. Bloomfield is too compelling a chef to go unnoticed. She doesn’t look like the cook she used to be, her hair now cut high and navally tight, but her food has the burly finesse it always did. In her first cookbook — the one where she wears a whole pig draped over her shoulders like a mink stole — she called her style “anal rustic.” I won’t attempt to improve upon that.
The menu leans toward modesty: “house red” (a thoroughly decent Grenache blend the night I visited; $9), roasted nuts, a slab of toast with a minty salsa verde. There is an homage to the chef Judy Rodgers — a re-creation of the most famous hors d’oeuvre at her San Francisco landmark, Zuni Café: two little anchovies served with cold half-moons of celery, a few tiny olives, and a couple tiles of Parmesan. You could roll your eyes — I did — until you try it. It’s an appetizer distilled to a perfect bite, a Caesar salad flensed to its barest essentials. Not one of these snacks, mind you, costs more than ten bucks.
But then the chef creeps in. Others could pile mussels on a long baton of toast, as Bloomfield does, but they would likely not think to stack the three-tiered heat of jalapeño, paprika, and cinnamon, or to add the cool, green astringency of fennel in the aïoli underneath, so compelling that every scrap on our table wound up tobogganing through it.
Bloomfield specializes in this kind of quiet surprise. Sailor rewards unusual choices, whether that is going further afield to try her crisp-fried sweetbreads — tender and a little musky in a lemon-caper sauce: pancreatic piccata — or moving further infield and doing something that critics generally advise against: ordering the chicken.
The chef has apparently been worrying about her roasted-chicken recipe for years. The R&D has paid off. Her half-bird comes in a candy-colored cocotte, its skin impressively bronzed, with a few boulderish, parm-crusted potatoes. Many chefs can achieve as much. But not many can get the level of flavor Bloomfield does, the perfumed, slightly dusty savor of herbs (dried and fresh, it turns out) penetrating deep into the meat. Its closest competitor for entrée supremacy is a less photogenic, but possibly even more delicious, smoked pork shoulder, brown as shoe leather and tender as suede, in a winy, olive-studded pan sauce alongside a sweet roasted hunk of fennel. “There’s a to-do about fennel here,” our waiter confided.
Bloomfield’s antipathy for theatrics can, on rare occasions, be a hindrance. One of her entrées is listed as “roasted cod in a soup.” What soup? I’ve now had it twice, and I’m not sure. It is rust orange and tastes of long-simmering and smoke, but on neither visit could I, nor anyone in my company, identify it. It wanted more anal, less rustic. Its vagueness was hard to square with a chef so particular about her ingredients that she once memorably wrote, “I’m quick to have a fannywobble if the parsnips are spongy.”
It’s also at odds with the specificity of the space. Sailor’s size is demurringly modest, seating only 20 souls in its main room and another 18 in the bar area. Despite “renovating the shit out of it,” as Stulman told me one evening while he glad-handed his way around the restaurant, much of the dining room’s space is given over to a hulking, beautiful, and admirably impractical wine case and marble-topped service station, where desserts wait under glass cloches.
As designed by Stulman and Alfredo Paredes, Ralph Lauren’s go-to, Sailor has the feel of a Polo Bar for the rest of us, oak-paneled but ship-snug, its thematic flourishes thankfully subtle: Stulman’s striped marinière shirt, lighthouse art, a tucked-away air-conditioning pipe wrapped in rigging rope. A month into its journey, Sailor’s food lands, the service hums, and even the prices seem glaringly reasonable. (Bloomfield’s chicken is $38, which these days qualifies as a bargain.) It may well be for neighbors, but on a recent evening that group included multi-award-nominated actors mooning over a window table and the cookbook author Melissa Clark, who sailed directly into the kitchen and parked at the pass. With the nearby C train disgorging Manhattanites and prices everywhere continuing to climb, can it last as a low-key, if nigh-unbookable, jewel box on Fort Greene’s restaurant row?
For the moment, the balance is nearly perfect. Bloomfield is in her element, and Stulman, with his stevedore’s build and newsboy’s cap, works the dining room with solicitous aplomb, making conversation and memorizing order details and spouse names at every table. Then again, there are only eight of them.

There are all sorts of reasons for grizzled dining veterans to be slightly suspicious of the new East Village restaurant Nudibranch, a former pop-up operation that now occupies a brick-and-mortar space among the jumble of storefronts on lower First Avenue. There’s the eccentric-sounding name (which turns out to be a brightly colored mollusk at the bottom of the sea). There’s the small, set-menu format ($75 for three courses), which has been popular around town during these COVID-addled times, but can often be more miss than hit in this grumpy critic’s experience. And finally, when it comes to the professional pedigree of the young chefs and owners, there’s the overused phrase “Momofuku alums,” which tends to conjure up images, in this post-Momofuku era, of tiresome country-ham tastings and stale, copycat pork buns.
I’m happy to report, however, that once situated at the elegant little bar, or at one of the polished ash-wood tables in the loud, somewhat cramped dining room, many of these worries and preconceptions melt away. There are some Momofukian touches at Nudibranch, it’s true, including the location, which is not far from the original Noodle Bar; the trademark spare, all-lowercase, one-page menu; and even an occasional “country ham” offering that includes Korean rice cakes. The three talented young cooks — Matthew Lee, Jeff Kim, and Victor Xia — did all work at various Momofuku outlets (Kim was a busser at Ssäm Bar), but they also learned their craft in other world-class kitchens, including Eleven Madison Park and the haute Korean Michelin destination Jungsik. At Nudibranch, as one course succeeds the next, it’s clear that like most successful chefs, they’ve taken influences from all over and created a style all their own.
The first dish we sampled — slices of buttery hamachi arranged in a small round serving bowl with a green-tomato granite and a garnish of sea grapes and edible flowers — was almost too pretty to eat. Ditto the excellent razor clams that followed, which were chopped into small bits and laid out on their cool, narrow shells with a flavoring of Meyer lemon, spicy Japanese chili, and maesil, a syrup popular in Korean cooking that’s made from fermented green plums. There were also little bits of scallop in this first group of dishes, set on toasted seaweed chips and topped with slivers of cucumber and trout roe, and a serving of four frogs’ legs, deep-fried in a flour batter like the chicken to which they’re often compared, but flavored with a paste made with lemongrass, galangal, and ginger, and laid side by side on the plate with a wedge of lime.
The collection of recipes in the second flight of dishes was possibly even more accomplished than the first, especially if you’re not a fan of amphibian limbs. We sampled slices of squid served over a scrim of spicy black beans stained with ink, and fat florets of cauliflower cooked a variety of ways, scattered with slivers of sweet, chewy lap-cheong sausage from Chinatown. There was an elegant helping of seared shrimp, too, candy-size and sweetened with baby kumquats, among other things, although the item the tasters at my table couldn’t stop nattering about was a simple helping of cold buckwheat soba that the chefs douse with a traditional mirin and kombu–based dashi and then dust with drifts of shaved bottarga on top, the way they might at the grand pasta destinations along the Amalfi Coast.
“I’d come back just for this dish,” one of the soba loons at my table said, at first in a quiet voice and then much louder, as the small room filled up with revelers, many of them shouting to be heard over the gathering din. Impossibly noisy dining rooms are a welcome thing in this not quite post-COVID era, of course, but by the time the final courses arrived we were all shouting into the din, too. I have vague memories of delicately sliced pork jowl arranged around bits of pineapple and crackly pressed leaves of charred cabbage, and a mole-drenched helping of braised turkey neck that probably would have been more enjoyable with a stack of tortillas on the side. I enjoyed my black sea bass (flavored with XO sauce and propped artfully over a layer of Cantonese turnip cakes), but the dish I’d go back for is the medley of assorted mushrooms arranged around a wobbly egg yolk and seasoned with a dash of Shaoxing wine.
When or what time exactly to return to Nudibranch depends, I suppose, on your frame of mind. Back in the old David Chang universe, the Viking-like sounds of feasting and celebration complemented the two-fisted umami-laced heartiness of the food, but to get the most out of this precise, elegant style of cooking, I suggest booking a peaceful, early-evening table. There are playful cocktails with which to steel oneself as the noise levels begin to rise (for maximum effect, try the “gilda martini” stuck with olives and a single white anchovy) and a nicely curated one-page list that contains an entire section of drinkable “skin contact” wines.
Right now, there are only two desserts to choose from, but to maintain your sense of zenlike calm, call for the rosette, which is a kind of Scandinavian funnel-cake pastry made in the shape of a flower and garnished with five neatly sliced blades of pear on top, arranged in the shape of a fan.
Open: Dinner Tuesday to Saturday
Prices:$75 for three-course prix-fixe; dishes are also available a la carte at the bar
Recommended dishes: Razor clams, soba, mushrooms, and pork jowl
Note: For maximum peace and quiet, agitate for a table by the window, not the bar.

As far as modern culinary concepts go, there may be no greater clichés than the all-day café, the natural-wine bar, and the upscale bodega. St. Jardim, newly opened in the West Village corner nook vacated during the pandemic by Bar Sardine, identifies as all of them but does so with enough flavor and personality to make it stand out from a very crowded pack. Credit for this goes to the good taste of partners Andrew Dete and Christa Alexander, neighborhood residents and first-time restaurateurs, and the talents of consulting chef Tony Nassif, a Montreal native whose résumé includes Black Seed Bagels and the Spotted Pig.
With its oversize windows flung open to the street, spare Tunisian dishware, and lavish seasonal-vegetable compositions that look engineered to tempt Instagram addicts, the 28-seat spot evokes the sunny climes and latte art of California, Australia, and especially Brooklyn, whence come its coffee beans (Sey), bread (Bien Cuit), wine director (moonlighting from the Four Horsemen), and director of operations (late of Leo). Yes, this is the type of place that will (and already does) attract chronic lingerers pretending to work on their laptops and zoomer girlfriends gossiping over avocado toast. But Nassif’s rendition of that all-day-café staple, dappled with crumbled queso blanco and crunchy salsa macha, is so delicious it should appeal to avo-toast connoisseurs of all ages as well as some detractors. Season-bridging salads are as fresh and well dressed as you could hope and embellished with kaleidoscopic wheels of radish, the last of the Sun Golds, Padrón peppers so hot you’ll need to nibble them in increments, and two types of sweet roasted squash. The chef’s Lebanese heritage can be detected in his liberal use of labneh — spread on sturdy vegetable toast, paired with cashew muhammara in the meze plate, rolled inside the mint-flecked omelet Alexandria — and in the garlicky toum on the chicken sandwich.
You’ll find Tom’s Juice in the grab-and-go fridge and eclectic snacks on the retail shelves (the banana candy is something Dete discovered on frequent business trips to Brazil; he named the café for a parkside neighborhood in Rio). Bodega-wise, it’s more curiosity shop than general store. And the mostly French wine list reveals some surprises, like orange Moravian Muscat and a Michigan rosé. If you’re not quite sure what goes best with a labneh omelet or the broccoli di cicco with anchovy and parm, the friendly staff will be happy to help you out.
St. Jardim, 183 W. 10th St., at W. 4th St.; stjardimnyc.com

During two nightly seatings, Noksu fills with takers for chef Dae Kim’s 12-course menu. Just 27, Kim has the piecey hair of a K-pop heartthrob and the technique of a hardened modernist. His plates are painstakingly arranged by tweezer: miniature gardens of edible flowers, gelatinized spheres, and weightless foams, often all at once. Even before the optional additions of Hokkaido uni or Italian white truffle, there is a risk of muchness: A finger bowl of oyster and snapper with cured roe and apple sorbet was positively hectic. More focused was a rye tartlet, crowned with tiny petals of hakurei turnip and blobs of preserved umeboshi plum concealing a filling of sweet, whisperingly saline crab innards, meant to be taken down in one bite.
Course after course arrives this way: tiny, intricate, built over days, disappeared within seconds. When Kim’s obsessive precision pays off, the results can be wonderful. A rare-cooked half-moon of trout, iced with a paste of trout-belly tartare, then glazed with ponzu–black-truffle gelée and served, for good measure, with a pricklingly tart yuzu hollandaise. A shingle of venison, plugged with a pistachio-flecked venison sausage, on a slick of liverish sauce. A squab, whose nut-brown body a cook has ladle-bathed in hot oil, appears on the plate as bronzed breast, taloned leg, and crisped hemisphere of skull. “You didn’t eat the head last time!” co-owner Bobby Kwak scolded me on my second visit. I thought I had—its eggy little wisp of brain was soft, experiential, maybe a little flavorless—but I’d missed the architecture. The whole thing is edible, to be picked up by the beak and crunched like a musky potato chip.
Do Noksu’s staff members see the humor in this urbanite’s ortolan? Ultimately, the restaurant is serving pigeon in a subway station. If they do, they are keeping mum. The nominal inspiration is the barbecued birds hanging in the window of the Chinatown restaurants that Kim—who moved to the U.S. from Seoul at 14—spent his teenage years going to, though his great innovation with the squab is a cardamom-scented, West African–inflected barbecue sauce, which I would buy by the bottle.
Your own enjoyment of Noksu will likely depend as much on your interest in micropyrotechnics as on your appetite: You are there to be wowed, having stumbled upon a secret to be savored, first privately and then, inevitably, publicly. During one of my meals, a pretty solo diner named Mai Pham was at the next seat, recording her every bite into a pair of oversize iPhones, one for video, one for audio, for her 3 million followers on YouTube. She looked a little uncertain when she got to the squab head.
Sealed off from the traffic of a normal restaurant, Noksu can feel — as can many tasting counters where dinner for two easily reaches $1,000 — a little airless and reverential. The privacy, the smallness, the total lack of windows: Noksu is like a luxury submarine set to a soundtrack of easy listening. “I know this much is truuue,” Spandau Ballet crooned as we spooned our caviar-flecked custard with scallop-y discs of surf clam. This is how the other half bunkers.
The subway is the ineffable seasoning of Noksu: its tantalizing spark of wrongness, luxury smashed up against municipal utility. You may wish it were a wrongness about which you knew less. Kwak ringleads meals chattily, but at $225 a head, it seems like bad manners to regale guests with stories of having to power-spray the restaurant’s entrance clean of a human extrusion he called “No. 3.”
Yet if you give yourself over to the theater of the experience, plenty of pleasure can be had. This is a rare and weird opportunity, long gestated. Kwak and his partners first secured the space (technically a part of the Martinique hotel at street level) in 2019, then had to wait out the worst of the pandemic. The otherworldliness of it is the point. You’re here for the spectacle, until you’re turned back out into the turnstiles. As they say in the subway — and you’re in the subway — it’s showtime.

Why do I feel like ten years ago people stopped eating like this?” whispered my guest not long after the relentlessly cheerful parade of servers and hosts and drinks experts who populate the suite of cocktail nooks and dining spaces at the newish tasting-menu destination Saga, down on Wall Street, had introduced themselves one by one. There was Ashley, who’d greeted us merrily in the lobby of the Art Deco tower at 70 Pine Street, and the smiling host who met us at the elevator door after we’d been whisked to the 63rd floor. There was Bridget the bartender, who whipped up our gin drinks, and Ellis the sommelier (“I’ll be taking you on your wine journey this evening”), and Daniela, who led us to our table shortly after we toured the various penthouse balconies with their glittering views of the harbor and city, each of them equipped, as on a cruise ship, with electrically warmed chairs and neatly rolled blankets.
Saga is the brainchild of the talented chef James Kent and manager-partner Jeff Katz (the name is an acronym of the letters of their children’s first names), whose first collaboration, the excellent Crown Shy, sits on the ground floor of 70 Pine. This venture has clearly been designed, presumably with the avid financial backing of the building’s latest owner, as a kind of ambitious, upmarket bookend to the more populist operation downstairs, which drew rave reviews not so long ago for Kent’s elegant iterations of roast pork chops and duck ragù. At Saga, however, you’re charged $245 before you even walk into the elevator — a fee that includes a seven-course dinner (which is not that many courses by ye olde tasting-menu standards) along with other elaborate, slightly forced touches, including a visit to a special tea parlor to sip digestive cups of Moroccan tea.
All of this must have seemed like a good idea during the go-go years leading up to the pandemic, but the dining landscape has undergone a radical and sudden sea change since then, of course, and four-hour tasting menus, private tearooms, and even breathtaking skyscraper views no longer carry the kind of cachet they once did in this muddled, slowly recovering, utilitarian world. The sense of traveling backward in time at Saga is amplified by the size of the rooms, which are small to the point of being poky, especially by grandiose postmodern real-estate-developer standards (they used to be the offices of the diminutive insurance-company titan Hank Greenberg); the décor (sparsely adorned walls, a brownish carpet, pieces of furniture described tartly by my guest as “hotel-conference-room chic”); and the omnipresent loop of curious, Muzak-like tunes that echo endlessly over the tables.
There’s nothing tired or too curiously dated about Kent’s solid, technically impressive cooking, though on my visit there wasn’t much that a jaded tasting-menu veteran hadn’t seen before. “We like to think of our menu as the story of how the chef got to where he is today,” our server intoned as we took delivery of a palate-brightening creation made with a little dome of a meringuelike substance filled with yuzu foam and served with a collection of carefully tweezed microgreens in a glass bowl. Next comes a “five way” tasting of fluke set on a variety of props (scallop half-shells, a bed of seaweed, an elevated silver tray) that Kent, who, we’re told, spent many influential years in the fluke-rich regions of Long Island, enlivens in a number of playful, generally successful ways with dabs of XO sauce, toppings of salmon roe, and delicately rolled strips of shiso.
Like the humble fluke fish, XO sauce and shiso leaf aren’t exactly novel ingredients in the upper realms of big-city-restaurant cooking, however. Neither is that aged murderers’ row of fancy-dinner signifiers — caviar, black truffles, and foie gras — that make their inevitable appearance soon afterward, one set over a foam whipped from bonito broth (the caviar) and the other two mingled in a kind of chawanmushi, or Japanese-style egg custard. As with most things at Saga, it was hard to find fault with these dishes, though as one course follows another (black bass from Long Island with Eleven Madison Park–style focaccia rolls, an excellent dry-aged Moroccan-accented duck, the Parker House–roll “ice-cream sandwich” for dessert), you get the sense that Kent, who was chef de cuisine at Eleven Madison, and his team are dutifully reproducing time-honored lessons instead of embarking on something more imaginative and new.
This is easier said than done, of course, during these fickle, treacherous times with prices rising and staffing tight. A restaurant like this has its own clientele to consider, which, judging by the procession of suits taking the elevator up to the private-dining “salon” and the snatches of conversation about stock prices and golf resorts drifting over from the next table, is made up of stolid Wall Street burghers who expect truffles and caviar when they fork over several hundred bucks for their dinner, not to mention that thousand-dollar bottle of Rhône or Bordeaux (see the “Powerful and Structured” section of the wine list). For the record, my very pleasant course-pairing “wine journey” with the loquacious and knowledgeable Ellis cost a relatively modest $155 and featured a variety of orange and biodynamic wines, though, as usual with establishments like this, it helps to have a friend in crypto or access to an old-fashioned expense account or a generous elderly uncle with a taste for truffles and foie gras.
Open: Dinner Tuesday through Saturday.
Prices: $245 per person.
Recommended dishes: For the two courses that offer options on the tasting menu, we like the roast duck and the “ice-cream sandwich.”
Note: Vegan and vegetarian menus are available on request. Boozehounds should make time for a visit to Overstory, the Art Deco–style ten-seat bar that is separate from the restaurant but accessible via the elevator or a flight of stairs. Yes, there is a balcony, and no, there probably isn’t a better martini-sipping view in town.

425 Park Avenue was completed in 2022. My colleague Justin Davidson describes Foster’s buildings, including this one, as “coolly sexy and seductively menacing.” The menace at the restaurant has been dialed down to plush softness and dim ease. The lobby bar may fill nightly with local financerati (much of the building is leased to Citadel, Ken Griffin’s hedge fund), but they sip their signature martinis under the cheerfully hectic brushstrokes of an enormous Larry Poons selected by Levinson. Among Abstract Expressionist trophies, this is about as un-menacing as it gets: Poons is to Pollock as Barney is to Jurassic Park.
The real action happens upstairs. As at the Grill, the room, suspended like a ritzy spaceship over the ground floor, suggests urbanity and influence, not to mention the obedience of whole fleets of coordinately burgundy-suited staffers. “This is what I imagined New York was like when I was 7,” whispered my partner when we were seated. “This is a theme park that’s ‘New York.’ ”
The vibe gives mid-century, but the menu does not. There are no prime-rib carts here; if the food recalls anyone’s past, it is Vongerichten’s, whose first New York restaurant, Lafayette, opened across the street in 1986. That history is in the coconut-lime curry that’s poured over a perfectly pink, steak-y slice of duck breast, for example, and the bar-menu snacks that reference his own greatest hits, like tuna tartare with ginger dressing.
The man himself is not in the kitchen, though on a recent evening, he was holding court in the bar. Chef duties are handled by Jonathan Benno, the talented, longtime journeyman who ran Per Se’s kitchen before striking out on his own with Lincoln, on the Lincoln Center campus, and Benno, in the Evelyn Hotel. He brings his own style and perspective to the menu (and, if I were to guess, the entire pasta section). The combination can make for a disorienting mix. Steamed black bass and sesame on the one hand, a hearty veal chop with sauerkraut and spaetzle in a sweetbreads ragout on the other. Silken tofu (with the now requisite, inescapable gouging of caviar) to start, followed by lumache in a beautifully fennel-scented red sauce. It can be incongruous, but does that matter?
When it all works, I don’t think so. Several dishes at Four Twenty Five rated among the best I’ve had in months of professional gorging. In a sea of foie gras often not worth the karmic demerit, Benno’s is a star: a thin slice, veined with leek “ash” and cocoa, nodding at its traditional spot on the French Christmas table with gingerbread-spiced madeleines and tart blood-orange marmalade. Raw seafood can be similarly impressive, from the slices of vinegared Spanish mackerel dotted with tiny beech mushrooms to an icy bowl of bay-scallop tartare that’s mixed with tahini and citrus and meant to be scooped up in a shiso leaf, like a spicy-scallop roll that has attained its final form.
The highs make the occasional misstep all the more jarring. The lumache, despite its appealingly spicy sauce and tender Florida shrimp, arrived at our table on the undercooked side of al dente. The lone vegetarian entrée, an intriguing-sounding celeriac francese, turned out to be soft slices of celery root in a slimy, sodden coating and not much else. Desserts tend toward the overcomplicated, favoring technique over pleasure. Dark-chocolate mousse came so dressed up — in its chocolate bowl, beneath a scrim of passion fruit and a snowdrift of coffee granita — that it wound up overwhelmed. A simpler caramel custard with bananas and brown butter was better.
Even with those stumbles, I’m inclined to recommend Four Twenty Five. With four pastas and three main courses under $40, it’s possible to eat well here at a relatively modest price, at least in this dining bracket. And the feeling of New York as we imagined it — all bright glass, sharp angles, major edifices, a midtown of the mind — still sparkles. Of course, it’s a fantasy, and the real creeps in at the door. Our sweet waitress confessed, as the dining room emptied and we drained the dregs of our Chenin Blanc, that she commutes an hour each way from Bed-Stuy. Most of her tables gasp at that revelation, aghast. Every spaceship has to land sometime.

Like most businesses in the city, the restaurant industry is filled, these days, with rumors of disruption and change. Will the tourists come back? (Probably.) Will the rents stay low? (Nope.) Will the business lunch ever return to fashion, not to mention the good old lunchtime salad, munched furtively in your messy cubicle? (Hmm.) Does Daniel Humm’s Twitter-shaking announcement that Eleven Madison Park is going to a meatless menu in the immediate post-pandemic future mean the death of haute cuisine as we know it? (Not likely.) Will the $30 all-beef gourmet burger endure during this urgent, newly reimagined era, never mind the fat-cat, expense-account-fueled New York steakhouse, and will the legions of Zoom-addled sushi bros return to their windowless ritualized omakase bunkers and start forking over thousands of dollars for shreds of endangered tuna ever again?
The big-city steakhouse is probably safe for now, but if you want a glimpse into what the disrupted future might look like for that other fat-cat expense-account destination, the sushi parlor, I suggest you book a seat at Rosella, which opened late last year in a comfortably stylish East Village space across from Tompkins Square Park. The sushi master in residence, Jeff Miller, went to college in Gainesville, Florida, and trained in Austin, Texas, instead of Tokyo, Osaka, or L.A., and most evenings you’ll find him preparing his artful nigiri menu wearing a Florida Gators cap on his head. Instead of a Japanese symbol or character, the restaurant is named after a breed of Australian parrot (Miller first fell in love with cooking in Australia), and unlike in many of the more traditional sushi joints around town, Brazilian funk plays over the sound system along with the occasional dulcet, bouncy song by the Clash.
But the biggest difference between Rosella and your average hushed, priestly pre-pandemic omakase destination is the sourcing of your meal. There are no esoteric shrimp from Hokkaido on the menu or delicate saori (needlefish) flown in directly from the chilly waters of Tokyo Bay. Most of the fish is local or curated from sustainable farms in Europe or around the U.S. The sushi rice, which is mingled with vinegar and sake in the traditional way and mixed in wooden tubs four times per day, is grown in California. The fat pearly shrimp come from the Gulf, the scallops are hoisted from the stormy seas off Montauk, and when Miller served me bigeye tuna one evening, he took pains to explain that tuna was out of season now but that his favorite supplier kept choice cuts in the back of the freezer to send to special clients.
My portion of bigeye tuna didn’t quite offer the opulent, forbidden pleasures of the finest-grade fatty otoro belly from Tokyo or Spain, but the texture was more or less perfect, and, at $7 per piece, it cost roughly a third of the price. The tuna is served here in spicy roll form or in generous slices over pats of rice, but my favorite iteration is a crudo composition that the kitchen rolls into tubes, dresses with long ribbons of mint and mango, and plates in a pool of olive oil and coconut milk. If you enjoy a little smoke, call for the steelhead trout, which is cured with burnt applewood, or the amberjack, which is smoked in walnut wood — although for the ultimate in classic sushi pleasure, I recommend the delicious Montauk scallops, which are topped with bulbs of finger lime to cut their natural, almost fruity sweetness.
“This might be the future of sushi, Platty,” cried my friend the Tokyo Whale, a connoisseur of the old school, who has dined in venerable sushi destinations around Japan and New York. Like me, he couldn’t quite tell whether his enthusiasms were a product of the dinner itself or of having had to subsist for the past year in a sushi-deprived world filled with pandemic bean recipes and random bags of carryout. But like me, he was surprised by the level of technical skill exhibited by Miller and his chef-partner sidekick, Yoni Lang, whose hometown culinary terroir happens to be New Orleans. We had few quibbles with the quality of the rice (it can be a little hard), or the soy (mixed daily with dashi and sake), or the signature eggy house tamago, which isn’t too soft or too sweet and which Miller frets over constantly, the way the great Tokyo sushi masters do.
Unlike the great Tokyo sushi masters, however, Miller and Lang aren’t weighed down by centuries of formal tradition, and they’re not afraid to push the boundaries here and there. You’ll find a refreshing oyster shooter on the omakase menu (with pomegranate juice and an icy lime granita) and an inventive shrimp-stuffed “étouffée hand roll” anointed with a proper just-whisked roux. You can get rice bowls dappled with pickled tomatillos at this neighborly establishment and an excellent sushi-and-rice chirashi folded with chunks of avocado along with the usual bounty of fish. The kitchen even serves up a version of Malaysian laksa noodle soup and a fine house ramen poured with a rich seafood broth, and if you still have room for dessert, there’s chocolate crémeux touched with sake lees and a cool amazake rice pudding garnished with bits of mandarin orange and a cloud of Chantilly cream.
Open: Dinner Wednesday to Sunday.
Prices: $6 to $75.
Ideal Meal: Bigeye-tuna crudo, chirashi-sushi bowl, as much à la carte nigiri as you can afford (scallop, shrimp, uni, smoked amberjack), amazake rice pudding.
Note: The sakes are one of the few things here flown in from Japan, and they’re served in generous wineglasses. Try “Sublime Beauty,” produced by Japan’s first female sake master.

Funny to think that years from now when we are back to packing ourselves into restaurants like sardines, passing share plates to and fro with carefree abandon, the vogue for comfort food likely will have waned. The pendulum will have swung, and cooks all over the city will have sharpened their tweezers, recalibrated their Spinzall countertop centrifuges, and reembraced a more ambitious, modernist style of cooking. Right now, of course, fancy cooking is out of step. Now is the time for pure, unalloyed comfort food, however you define it, which happens to be the theme of our roundup of the best things we ate this year.
Yellow Rose, 102 Third Ave.
Should we be ashamed to admit that until a few weeks ago, we’d never even heard of Texas sheet cake? Going by what we know now, we’d say no, as a Texas sheet cake, apparently, is a homely sort of chocolate-pecan thing Texans are practically required by law to bring to pot lucks, bake sales, and funerals (in certain parts of the state, the dessert goes under the alias of Texas funeral cake). The version Yellow Rose sells by the slice is something else: a super-moist chocolate crumb topped with a rich and tangy chocolate frosting garnished with candied pecans. As it turns out, this is a highly interpretive Texas sheet cake baked by a Boston native named Darcy Spence whose job it is to channel the confectionery desires of her Texas-expat bosses. For her TSC, she candies then deep-fries her pecans, puts Frankies olive oil into and on top of the cake, and forges her frosting from a combination of chocolate ganache, cream cheese, and crème fraîche — artistic tinkerings that would surely raise eyebrows at a Texas funeral.
Fish and chips is not a dish designed to withstand the rigors of a New York City delivery-run obstacle course. But Dame’s version is up to the task: tender, flaky fillets sheathed in a lofty crust that’s light and crisp but surprisingly sturdy. Superior British-style chips, too, and a housemade tartar sauce that will knock your socks off.
I Sodi, 105 Christopher St.
Lasagna maven Rita Sodi’s latest flabbergaster: 21 sheets of housemade pasta cacio-e-pepe’d with predictably stupendous results.
Fat Choy, 250 Broome St.
A hot and steamy paper boat of red beans mingled with braised kale and collards, fermented tofu, and fluffy jasmine rice that will fix you up. If you’re dining alfresco, you won’t even need a heat lamp.
Milu, 333 Park Ave. S.
A dish purporting to be a rice bowl, but rice bowls do not traffic in meat this good: sticky, ripply, dice-size nuggets of caramelized brisket slicked with a garlic-chile-mint sauce. Shout-out to the accompanying marinated cucumbers, which are not only smashed but meticulously sliced accordian-style to help soak up their sauce.
Té Company, 163 W. 10th St.
We like Frederico Ribeiro’s new shortbread cookies even more than his famous pineapple linzers. They go as well with an afternoon cup of tea or coffee as they do with a Bobby Burns nightcap. (Pick up a box at the shop or order them online.)
Thai Diner, 186 Mott St.
Ground turkey and rice rolled up tight in crinkly Savoy-cabbage leaves takes its inspiration from stuffed-cabbage mecca Veselka. Instead of mushroom gravy, you get coconut milk spiked with galangal and makrut lime. Thai-Ukrainian fusion food at its finest.
Momofuku Ko, 8 Extra Pl.
No fine-dining pivoter goes lowbrow with better results than Momofuku Ko. The barbecued chicken with ranch dressing on a sourdough crust will shock and delight CPK nostalgists, and the spicy Sicilian with its burnt bits and crisp edges will have the non-round cognoscenti reordering their Best Square Pizza rankings.
The LIC restaurant’s meat pie — two and a half pounds of braised beef, smoked capon, heritage pork, shredded potatoes, and sautéed mushrooms baked in a flaky pâte brisée crust — isn’t new, but now you can get it delivered citywide (and beyond) via Baldor.
Xi’an Famous Foods, online-order only
If stretching, pulling, thwacking, twirling, and generally wrangling a hunk of dough like a rodeo trick roper before turning it into dinner fails to relieve your tension, nothing will.
Edith’s, 60 Greenpoint Ave., Greenpoint
A crispy, lacy latke that would have all the bubbes in Brooklyn turning green with envy. And you can get one on a bagel with bacon, egg, and cheese.
Cutlets Sandwich Co., 900 Broadway
Finally, a shop dedicated to restoring the reputation of the chicken-cutlet hero. The No. 2 — with roasted red peppers and sharp provolone on a Parisi Bakery roll — is a good start.
*A version of this article appears in the December 21, 2020, issue of New York Magazine. Subscribe Now!

